ArchTrack/oldtools
==================

+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Contents                                                                 |
| --------                                                                 |
|                                                                          |
| -   1 Core                                                               |
| -   2 Information Gathering                                              |
| -   3 Network Mapping                                                    |
| -   4 Sniffers                                                           |
| -   5 Fingerprint                                                        |
| -   6 Vulnerability Identification                                       |
|     -   6.1 Fuzzers                                                      |
|     -   6.2 SNMP                                                         |
|     -   6.3 SMB                                                          |
|     -   6.4 SQL                                                          |
|     -   6.5 Cisco                                                        |
|                                                                          |
| -   7 Penetration                                                        |
| -   8 Privilege Escalation                                               |
| -   9 Packet Generators                                                  |
| -   10 Maintaining Access                                                |
|     -   10.1 Backdoors                                                   |
|                                                                          |
| -   11 Covering Tracks                                                   |
|     -   11.1 Housekeeping                                                |
|                                                                          |
| -   12 Radio Network Analysis                                            |
|     -   12.1 802.11                                                      |
|     -   12.2 Bluetooth                                                   |
|                                                                          |
| -   13 VoIP & Telephony Analysis                                         |
| -   14 Network Security Monitoring                                       |
| -   15 Digital Forensics                                                 |
| -   16 Reverse Engineering                                               |
| -   17 Services                                                          |
| -   18 Firefox Add-ons                                                   |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Core
----

Legend:

(T) -- Text Interface

(G) -- Graphical Interface

(W) -- Wine App

(*) -- Exclusive. (not on BT)

TODO -- NOT on AUR

NOTE: The following list of tools is included to support ongoing
development of AUR packages for these tools. In the near future, it will
be automatically generated by the script(s) at the ArchTrack project at
GitHub. Please be patient! There are only a few people working on this
in a part-time, unofficial capacity.

Information Gathering
---------------------

tool

status

info

ASS(T)

irpas

ASS is a Autonomous System Scanner. Because routing protocols use
autonomous systems to distinguish between various routing "domains" and
various ways to communicate, you need something which works like a TCP
port scanner but knows more than one protocol.

Dmitry(T)

dmitry

DMitry (Deepmagic Information Gathering Tool) is a UNIX/Linux command
line program coded purely in C with the ability to gather as much
information as possible about a host.

DNS-Ptr(T)

TODO

It is a tool that allows you to make a consultation by means of IP ranks
to obtain DNS names of this IPs in addition with simplicity and speed.

dnswalk(T)

dnswalk

Dnswalk is a DNS debugger. It performs zone transfers of specified

domains, and checks the database in numerous ways for internal
consistency, as well as accuracy.

dns-bruteforce(T)

TODO

This tool is used to made a brute force on name resolution.The idea of
that tool is to resolve all words dot domain name. To be more useful the
tool uses multi threading; one thread for each name server. Classical
brute forcers are sequential. With this method we cut the dictionary in
n blocs ( n is the number of dns servers) and distribute these blocs to
name servers.

The tool is now in the project revhosts, new updates are only available
in revhosts.

dnsenum(T)

TODO

A tool written in Perl to enumerate information on a domain. It uses the
Net::DNS module.

dnsmap(T)

dnsmap

Dnsmap is a small C based tool that perform brute-forcing of domains.
The tool can use an internal wordlist, or work with an external
dictionary file.

DNSPredictx(T)

TODO

This PERL script, by Jimmy Neutron, is great for determining DNS names
with Google. This tool, which is essential for network mapping, accepts
two somewhat related words, and a domain name as arguments. The two
words are sent through Google sets which expands the words into a list
of related words. For example, "earth" and "mars" would expand to Venus,
Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn, Neptune, Uranus, Pluto. If fed domain foo.com,
dnspredict would then attempt to DNS resolve venus.foo.com,
mercury.foo.com, etc. This Windows version is standalone, and requires
nothing other than this executable.

dnstracer(T)

dnstracer

FingerGoogle(T)

TODO

FingerGoogle is a reduced Net-Twister module that helps to find user
account names

Firewalk(T)

firewalk

Firewalk is an active reconnaissance network security tool that attempts
to determine what layer 4 protocols a given IP forwarding device will
pass. Firewalk works by sending out TCP or UDP packets with a TTL one
greater than the targeted gateway. If the gateway allows the traffic, it
will forward the packets to the next hop where they will expire and
elicit an ICMP_TIME_EXCEEDED message. If the gateway host does not allow
the traffic, it will likely drop the packets on the floor and we will
see no response.

Goog Mail Enum(T)

TODO

Enumerate domain emails from google

Google search(T)

TODO

Google search script from the command line.

Googrape(T)

TODO

Gives a localized access to the Google Hacking DB by allowing you to
look up a domain name. And is excelent for searching through records.

Gooscan(T)

TODO

Gooscan is a tool that automates queries against Google search
appliances.

Host(T)

dnsutils

host is a simple utility for performing DNS lookups. It is normally used
to convert names to IP addresses and vice versa. When no arguments or
options are given, host prints a short summary of its command line
arguments and options.

For greater information: "man host"

Itrace(T)

irpas

Itrace is a program that implements traceroute(1) functionality using
ICMP echo request packets. Therefore, it looks like you are just pinging
your target while you traceroute there. It often helps tracing behind
firewalls.

Netenum(T)

irpas

netenum can be used to produce lists of hosts for other programs. It's
not as powerful as other ping-sweep tools, but it's simple. When giving
a timeout, it uses ICMP echo request to find available hosts. If you
don't supply a timeout, it just prints an IP address per line, so you
can use them in shell scripts.

Netmask(T)

irpas

netmask asks for the netmask by ICMP.

PIRANA(T)

TODO

PIRANA is a penetration testing framework to help in checking a SMTP
content filter's security. It works by attaching an exploit to an email,
optionally disguising it from content filters. PIRANA also lets you
choose from different type of shellcodes to use and has various options
to be stealthy.

Notes: The manual page incorrectly shows an EXAMPLES entry using the -l
(ell) option as a -1 (one). The -l (ell) option is correct. You'll need
to specify a fully qualified email address (user@example.com) instead of
just the user name. Run make in the /pentest/fuzzers/pirana directory
before using PIRANA.

"I wrote a paper that explains what are the vulnerabilities of a SMTP
content filter. It also presents what techniques were used in PIRANA to
improve reliability and stealthness." Jean-Sébastien Guay-Leroux, Author
of Pirana tool

Protos(T)

irpas*

Protos is a IP protocol scanner. It goes through all possible IP
protocols and uses a negative scan to sort out unsupported protocols
which should be reported by the target using ICMP protocol unreachable
messages.

QGoogle(T)

TODO

Make google queries from python. Google licence key required.

Relay Scanner(T)

TODO

It can search for SMTP server also locates and identifies open relay
SMTP servers. It is an all in one program, you tell it how to scan and
it does ALL of the work for you.

SMTP-Vrfy(T)

TODO

An SMTP Protocol Hacker.

Vrfy.pl uses the vrfy command to verify users/mail accounts on a network
by using a list of common system names like root, admin, etc...

TCtrace(T)

irpas*

TCtrace is like itrace a traceroute(1) brother - but it uses TCP SYN
packets to trace. This makes it possible for you to trace through
firewalls if you know one TCP service that is allowed to pass from the
outside.

Network Mapping
---------------

tool

status

info

Amap 5.2(T)

amap

Amap is a next-generation tool for assisting network penetration
testing. It performs fast and reliable application protocol detection,
independent on the TCP/UDP port they are being bound to.

ASS(T)

irpas

Kond:Network Mapping

Autoscan 0.99R1(G)

autoscan*

AutoScan is an application designed to explore and to manage your
network. Entire subnets can be scanned simultaneously without human
intervention.

Fping(T)

fping

Fping is a ping(1) like program which uses the Internet Control Message
Protocol (ICMP) echo request to determine if a host is up. fping is
different from ping in that you can specify any number of hosts on the
command line, or specify a file containing the lists of hosts to ping.
Instead of trying one host until it timeouts or replies, fping will send
out a ping packet and move on to the next host in a round-robin fashion.
If a host replies, it is noted and removed from the list of hosts to
check. If a host does not respond within a certain time limit and/or
retry limit it will be considered unreachable.

Hping(T)

hping

hping is a command-line oriented TCP/IP packet assembler/analyzer. The
interface is inspired to the ping(8) unix command, but hping isn't only
able to send ICMP echo requests. It supports TCP, UDP, ICMP and RAW-IP
protocols, has a traceroute mode, the ability to send files between a
covered channel, and many other features.

IKE-Scan(T)

TODO

ike-scan is a command-line tool that uses the IKE protocol to discover,
fingerprint and test IPsec VPN servers.

IKEProbe(T)

TODO

IKEProbe can be used to determine vulnerabilities in the PSK
implementation of the VPN server. It tries out various combinations of
ciphers, hashes and Diffie-Helman groups and attempts to force the
remote server into aggressive mode. Tutorial using IKEprobe:
http://www.securityfocus.com/infocus/1821

Netdiscover(T)

netdiscover

Netdiscover is an active/passive address reconnaissance tool, mainly
developed for those wireless networks without dhcp server, when you are
wardriving. It can be also used on hub/switched networks.

Netselect(T)(*)

netselect

An ultrafast intelligent parallelizing binary-search implementation of
ping.

Nmap 5(T)

nmap*

Nmap ("Network Mapper") is an open source tool for network exploration
and security auditing. It was designed to rapidly scan large networks,
although it works fine against single hosts. Nmap uses raw IP packets in
novel ways to determine what hosts are available on the network, what
services (application name and version) those hosts are offering, what
operating systems (and OS versions) they are running, what type of
packet filters/firewalls are in use, and dozens of other
characteristics. While Nmap is commonly used for security audits, many
systems and network administrators find it useful for routine tasks such
as network inventory, managing service upgrade schedules, and monitoring
host or service uptime.

Nmap tutorial:
http://www.nmap-tutorial.com/html/nmap-tutorial-single.html

nmapsi4(G)

nmapsi4*

Nmap graphical interface. Exclusive.

P0f(T)

p0f

P0f is a versatile passive OS fingerprinting tool.

PSK-Crack(T)

TODO

psk-crack attempts to crack IKE Aggressive Mode pre-shared keys that
have been previously gathered using ike-scan with the --pskcrack option.

psk-crack can operate in two different modes:

- Dictionary cracking mode: this is the default mode in which psk-crack
tries each candidate word from the dictionary file in turn until it
finds a match, or all the words in the dictionary have been tried.

- Brute-force cracking mode: in this mode, psk-crack tries all possible
combinations of a specified character set up to a given length.

Ping(T)

iputils

The ping utility uses the ICMP protocol's mandatory ECHO_REQUEST
datagram to elicit an ICMP ECHO_RESPONSE from a host or gateway.
ECHO_REQUEST datagrams (``pings) have an IP and ICMP header, followed by
a ``struct timeval and then an arbitrary number of ``padbytes used to
fill out the packet.

Protos(T)

irpas

Protos is a IP protocol scanner. It goes through all possible IP
protocols and uses a negative scan to sort out unsupported protocols
which should be reported by the target using ICMP protocol unreachable
messages.

Scanrand(T)

paketto

Scanrand is a fast network scanner that can scan single hosts to very
large networks efficiently. However, several network mapping utilites
boast this same claim. So why is scanrand any different? Scanrand can do
what is called stateless TCP scanning, which sets it apart from the
other network scanners.

umit(T)

TODO

Another Nmap frontend

UnicornScan(T)

unicornscan

Unicornscan is a new information gathering and correlation engine built
for and by members of the security research and testing communities. It
was designed to provide an engine that is Scalable, Accurate, Flexible,
and Efficient.

UnicornScan pgsql 0.4.6e module version 1.03

Automated UnicornScan startup script.

PBNJ(T)

TODO

PBNJ is a suite of tools to monitor changes on a network over time. It
does this by checking for changes on the target machine(s), which
includes the details about the services running on them as well as the
service state. PBNJ parses the data from a scan and stores it in a
database. PBNJ uses Nmap to perform scans.

OutputPBNJ(T) -- TODO -- a program to query a PBNJ 2.0 database, part of
PBNJ 2.0 suite of tools to monitor changes on a network.

ScanPBNJ(T) -- TODO -- a program for running Nmap scans and storing the
results in a PBNJ 2.0 database

Genlist(T)

TODO

Network scanning for hosts responding to ping

Sniffers
--------

tool

status

info

Driftnet(T)

driftnet

Driftnet is a program which listens to network traffic and picks out
images from TCP streams it observes.

Dsniff(T)

dsniff

dsniff is a collection of tools for network auditing and penetration
testing. dsniff, filesnarf, mailsnarf, msgsnarf, urlsnarf, and webspy
passively monitor a network for interesting data (passwords, e-mail,
files, etc.). arpspoof, dnsspoof, and macof facilitate the interception
of network traffic normally unavailable to an attacker (e.g, due to
layer-2 switching). sshmitm and webmitm implement active
monkey-in-the-middle attacks against redirected SSH and HTTPS sessions
by exploiting weak bindings in ad-hoc PKI.

EtherApe(G)

etherape

EtherApe is a graphical network monitor for Unix modeled after etherman.
Featuring link layer, ip and TCP modes, it displays network activity
graphically. Hosts and links change in size with traffic. Color coded
protocols display.

It supports Ethernet, FDDI, Token Ring, ISDN, PPP and SLIP devices. It
can filter traffic to be shown, and can read traffic from a file as well
as live from the network.

Ettercap(T)

ettercap

Ettercap was born as a sniffer for switched LAN (and obviously even
"hubbed" ones), but during the development process it has gained more
and more features that have changed it to a powerful and flexible tool
for man-in-the-middle attacks. It supports active and passive dissection
of many protocols (even ciphered ones) and includes many features for
network and host analysis (such as OS fingerprinting).

EtterCap-GTK(G)(*)

ettercap-gtk

GTK2-based ettercap interface presented only as ArchTrack package

HSRP Spoofer(T)

TODO

Hash Collision(T)

TODO

Httpcapture(T)

TODO

ICMP Redirect(T)

TODO

ICMPush(T)

TODO?

IGRP Spoofer(T)

TODO

IRDP Responder(T)

irpas

Sniffer, which listens to IRDP requests (solicitation) and answers.
Sends out periodic updates.

IRDP Spoofer(T)

TODO

Lodowep(T)

TODO

Lodowep is a tool for analyzing password strength of accounts on a Lotus
Domino webserver system. The tool supports both session- and
basic-authentication. It runs 20 simultaneous connection guessing
passwords specified in a dictionaryfile against the supplied userfile.

Mailsnarf(T)

TODO

Mailsnarf Passively monitor a network for interesting data being sent
across a network/interface. [ E-Mails Only ]

Msgsnarf(T)

TODO

Passively monitors a network for interesting data being sent across the
network. Msgsnarf shall capture messages on a network/interface.

MSNsniff(T)(*)

msnsniff

A command line tool for intercepting conversations over the MSN
Messenger protocol

Nast(T)(*)

nast

Nast is a packet sniffer and a LAN analyzer based on Libnet and Libpcap.

NetSed(T)

netsed

Small and handful utility design to alter the contents of packets
forwarded thru network in real time.

Ntop(T)

ntop

ntop is a network traffic probe that shows the network usage, similar to
what the popular top Unix command does. ntop is based on libpcap and it
has been written in a portable way in order to virtually run on every
Unix platform and on Win32 as well.

ntop users can use a a web browser (e.g. netscape) to navigate through
ntop (that acts as a web server) traffic information and get a dump of
the network status. In the latter case, ntop can be seen as a simple
RMON-like agent with an embedded web interface.

PHoss(T)

phoss

PHoss is a spniffer designed to find HTTP, FTP, LDAP, Telnet, IMAP4 and
POP3 logins/passwords on your network. It also sniffs the VNC
challenge/response handshake.

Rcrack(T)

rainbowcrack

RainbowCrack tool is a hash cracker.

SIPdump(T)

sipcrack

See AT#VOIP_.26_Telephony_Analysis

SMB Sniffer(T)

TODO

TFTP-Brute(T)

TODO

THC PPTP(T)

TODO

TcPick(T)

TODO?

tcpick is a textmode sniffer libpcap-based that can track, reassemble
and reorder tcp streams. Tcpick is able to save the captured flows in
different files or displays them in the terminal, and so it is useful to
sniff files that are transmitted via ftp or http. It can display all the
stream on the terminal, when the connection is closed in different
display modes like hexdump, hexdump + ascii, only printable charachters,
raw mode and so on.

URLsnarf(T)

TODO

WebCrack(T)

TODO

Wireshark(G)

wireshark

Wireshark is a GUI network protocol analyzer. It lets you interactively
browse packet data from a live network or from a previously saved
capture file. Wireshark's native capture file format is libpcap format,
which is also the format used by tcp- dump and various other tools.

-   Due to trademark issues the Ethereal software project has changed
    its name to Wireshark !

Wireshark Wifi(T)

TODO

Wireshark with Wifi Injection Patch allows the user to select a packet
opened with wireshark and edit it and reinject throught LORCON injection
library.

WyD(T)

wyd

wyd is a password profiling tool that extracts words/strings from
supplied files and directories. It supports different filetypes: plain,
html, php (partially), doc, ppt, mp3, pdf, jpeg, odp/ods/odp and
extracting raw strings.

Xspy(T)

TODO

Xspy takes advantage of an oversight in X Windows (R5 & R6) to find out
about keypresses even in "secure mode". It works by polling the
keyboard, by default every hundredth of a second. Polling the keyboard
is not affected by any secure modes, which "grab" the keyboard to shut
off events being sent out.

Fingerprint
-----------

tool

status

info

httprint(T)

httprint

httprint is a web server fingerprinting tool. It relies on web server
characteristics to accurately identify web servers. Normally by changing
server signatures and banner strings or enabling specific plug-ins,
various web fingerprinting tools may be confused and provide false
positive results. This is not the case with httprint. httprint can also
be used to detect web enabled devices which do not have a server banner
string, such as: Wireless AP, Routers, Switches, Cable modems, etc.
httprint uses text based signature strings to identify targeted web
servers.

httprint gui(G)

TODO

httprint is a web server fingerprinting tool.

SinFP(T)

sinfp

SinFP is a new approach to OS fingerprinting, which bypasses limitations
that nmap has. This approach brings the era of OS fingerprinting on a
per-TCP port basis, not on a per-host basis.

Xprobe2(T)

xprobe2

xprobe2 is an active operating system fingerprinting tool with a
different approach to operating system fingerprinting. xprobe2 relies on
fuzzy signature matching, probabilistic guesses, multiple matches
simultaneously, and a signature database.

Vulnerability Identification
----------------------------

tool

status

info

curl(T)

curl

curl is a command line tool for transferring files with URL syntax,
supporting FTP, FTPS, HTTP, HTTPS, SCP, SFTP, TFTP, TELNET, DICT, FILE
and LDAP. curl supports SSL certificates, HTTP POST, HTTP PUT, FTP
uploading, HTTP form based upload, proxies, cookies, user+password
authentication (Basic, Digest, NTLM, Negotiate, kerberos...), file
transfer resume, proxy tunneling and a busload of other useful tricks.

GFI LANguard 2.0(T)

TODO

GFI LANguard Network Security Scanner (N.S.S.) checks your network for
all potential methods that a hacker might use to attack it. By analyzing
the operating system and the applications running on your network, GFI
LANguard N.S.S. identifies possible security holes. In other words, it
plays the devil's advocate and alerts you to weaknesses before a hacker
can find them, enabling you to deal with these issues before a hacker
can exploit them.

GetSids(T)

TODO

Getsids tries to enumerate Oracle Sids by sending the services command
to the Oracle TNS listener. Like doing ‘lsnrctl service’.

HTTP PUT(T)

TODO

Usage: /pentest/web/put.pl -h <host> -l <file>

           -h <host>       = host you want to attack
           -r <remote>     = remote file name
           -f <local>      = local file name
           -p <port>       = web server port

Other Options:

           -x              = ssl mode
           -v              = verbose

Example: /pentest/web/put.pl -h target -r /cmdasp.asp -f cmdasp.asp

Halberd(T)

TODO

Halberd discovers HTTP load balancers. It is useful for web application
security auditing and for load balancer configuration testing.

ISR-Form(T)

TODO

Gets the form data from a webpage

List-Urls(T)

TODO

Extracts Urls from a webpage

Lynx(T)

lynx

Lynx is the text web browser.

Merge Router Config(T)

TODO

MetaCoretex(T)

TODO

MetaCoretex security scanner is an extremely modular plugin based
security scanner written entirely in JAVA to allow the use of JDBC Type
IV drivers when scanning databases. Initially, most plugins will likely
be for DBs.

Metoscan(T)

TODO

Metoscan is a tiny tool for scanning the HTTP methods supported by a web
server. It works testing a URL and checking the responses for the
different probes.

Mezcal(T)

TODO

Mezcal is an HTTP/HTTPS bruteforcing tool allowing the crafting of
requests and insertion of dynamic variables on-the-fly.

Nikto(T)

nikto

Nikto is an Open Source (GPL) web server scanner which performs
comprehensive tests against web servers for multiple items, including
over 3300 potentially dangerous files/CGIs, versions on over 625
servers, and version specific problems on over 230 servers. Scan items
and plugins are frequently updated and can be automatically updated (if
desired).

OAT(T)

TODO

OAT (Oracle Auditing Tools) - is a set of tools which can be used to
audit Oracle databases running on the Microsoft Windows platform. The
Tools are Java based and were tested on both Windows and Linux. They
should hopefully also run on any other Java platform.

OpenSSL-Scanner(T)

TODO

OpenSSL vulnerability scanner scans for a remote exploit for the KEY_ARG
overflow in OpenSSL 0.9.6d and older. Tested against most major Linux
distributions. Gives a remote nobody shell on Apache and remote root on
other servers. Includes an OpenSSL vulnerability scanner and a detailed
vulnerability analysis. Only Linux/x86 targets are supported.

Exploit Details (CVE-2002-0656):
http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CAN-2002-0656

Paros Proxy(T)

TODO

Web Proxy, written in Java. Supports http and https.

RPCDump(T)

TODO

RPCDUMP is a program which provides console access to the RPC APIs in
Windows.

RevHosts(T)

revhosts

Tool written in Python that is design to accelerate PIG (Passive
information gathering).

We have several modules for that.

-   vhh : We use search engine that return host that are on an IP
    (Virtual Host hacking)
-   Findsubdomains : module that returns subdomains of a domains.
-   Dnsbruteforce : dnsbruteforce is now a module of revhosts. It use
    multithread (1 thread for each dns server) and made dns resolution
    of hostnames of a domain.
-   Getdirectories : look on search engine for directories that are on a
    host (no connection to the host).
-   subnet : look for IP that have the same tech contact.
-   getmail : module that search on internet for mail adress

Spike(T)

TODO

When you need to analyze a new network protocol for buffer overflows or
similar weaknesses, the SPIKE is the tool of choice for professionals.
While it requires a strong knowledge of C to use, it produces results
second to none in the field. SPIKE is available for the Linux platform
only. SPIKE Whitepapers:
http://www.immunitysec.com/resources-papers.shtml

Stompy(T)

TODO

A free tool to perform a fairly detailed black-box assessment of WWW
session identifier generation algorithms. Session IDs are commonly used
to track authenticated users, and as such, whenever they’re predictable
or simply vulnerable to brute-force attacks, we do have a problem. The
tool has already revealed several problems in proprietary software
platforms such as BEA WebLogic and Sun Java System Web Server (both have
problems with their JSESSIONIDs).

SuperScan(W)

wine

Powerful TCP port scanner, pinger, resolver.

SuperScan is a powerful connect-based TCP port scanner, pinger and
hostname resolver. Multithreaded and asynchronous techniques make this
program extremely fast and versatile.

TNScmd(T)

TODO

tnscmd can be used to speak, on a very simple level, with Oracle's TNS
listener.

The TNS listener (aka tnslsnr) is the network interface between a
database client and the database server. tnslsnr listens on port
1521/tcp, but the DBA can change this (I've seen listeners on port
1541/tcp as well.) fwiw, nmap-services lists these as ncube-lm and rds2,
respectively.

The tnslnsr keeps a spartan log of activity -- spartan in that it
doesn't log a whole lot of useful information. For instance, it does not
log the IP address of TNS sessions.

If you initiate a TCP session to the tnslsnr port, you won't make much
headway; it won't provide a banner and will probably disconnect if you
type something. Don't worry; this is what tnscmd is for.

Taof(T)

TODO

Taof is a GUI cross-platform Python generic network protocol fuzzer. It
has been designed for minimizing set-up time during fuzzing sessions and
it is especially useful for fast testing of proprietary or undocumented
protocols.

Wapiti(T)

TODO

Wapiti allows you to audit the security of your web applications.

It performs "black-box" scans, i.e. it does not study the source code of
the application but will scans the webpages of the deployed webapp,
looking for scripts and forms where it can inject data. Once it gets
this list, Wapiti acts like a fuzzer, injecting payloads to see if a
script is vulnerable.

Yersinia(T)

TODO

Yersinia is a network tool designed to take advantage of some weakeness
in different network protocols. It pretends to be a solid framework for
analyzing and testing the deployed networks and systems.

> Fuzzers

tool

status

info

Bed(T)

bed

Bruteforce Exploit Detector is a collection of scripts to automatically
test implementations of different protocols for buffer overflows and /
or format string vulnerabilities, by sending a lot of long strings to a
server. It tries a kind of bruteforce, an attack without any plan. Some
ppl would call it a fuzzer.

CIRT Fuzzer(T)

TODO

A simple TCP/UDP protocol Fuzzer Version 1.0

Fuzzer 1.2(T)

TODO

What this tool does: "Fuzzing" is an automated software testing
technique that generates and submits random or sequential data to
various areas of an application in an attempt to uncover security
vulnerabilities. For example, when searching for buffer overflows, a
tester can simply generate data of various sizes and send it to one of
the application entry points to observe how the application handles it.

JBroFuzz(T)

TODO

JBroFuzz is a stateless network protocol fuzzer that emerged from the
needs of penetration testing. Written in Java, it allows for the
identification of certain classess of security vulnerabilities, by means
of creating malformed data and having the network protocol in question
consume the data.

Mistress(T)

TODO

Mistress in an 'Application Sadism Environment' and can also be called a
fuzzer. It is written in Python and was created for probing file formats
on the fly and protocols with malformed data, based on pre-defined
patterns. It is recommended that the project site be visited for further
documentation and use cases.

Peach(T)

TODO

Peach is a cross-platform fuzzing framework written in Python. Peaches
main goals include: short development time, code reuse, ease of use, and
flexability. Peach can fuzz just about anything from .NET, COM/ActiveX,
SQL, shared libraries/DLL's, network applications, web, you name it.
Peach Tutorial:
http://peachfuzz.sourceforge.net/docs/tutorial/peach-tutorial.htm

  

> SNMP

tool

status

info

Mibble MIB Browser(T)

mbrowse

Mibble is an open-source SNMP MIB parser (or SMI parser) written in
Java. It can be used to read SNMP MIB files as well as simple ASN.1.

Onesixtyone(T)

onesixtyone

an efficient SNMP scanner

net-snmp(T)

netsnmp

snmpscan

    snmpwalk

snmpcheck(T)

TODO

Gather information via SNMP protocols. It works against Windows, Linux,
Cisco, HP-UX, SunOS and any devices with SNMP protocol support.

Snmp Enum(T)

TODO

Simple Perl script to enumerate information on machines that are running
SNMP.

> SMB

tool

status

info

SMB Bruteforcer(T)

TODO

A SMB bruteforcer which tries approx. 1200 logins/sec on Windows 2000
because of the timeout bug. On NT4 it's very much slower.

SMB Client(T)

smbclient

A LanManager-like simple client for Unix

The Samba software suite is a collection of programs that implements the
SMB protocol. LanManager or NetBIOS protocol.

SMB Serverscan(T)

TODO

Scans for machines running Samba servers.

py-smbpasswd(T)

py-smbpasswd(*)

SMB Password Hash Generator.

smbat(T)

smbat(*)

SMB (password) Auditing Tool for the Windows-and the SMB-platform

SMB LAN Search(T)

smblansearch(*)

Set of integrated tools that help you to find and download files you
need on samba shares.

SMB-NAT(T)

TODO

Netbios Auditing Tool

This tool can perform various security checks on remote servers running
NetBIOS file sharing services. It is capable of enumerating shares and
make break-in attempts using a (user-provided) list of users and
passwords.

SMBdumpusers(T)

TODO

SMBgetserverinfo(T)

TODO

usage:

     smbgetserverinfo -i [options]
       -i*     IP address
       -s      Name of the server
       -t      timeout for connect (default 300ms)
       -v      Be verbose
       -vv     Be even more verbose

Output example(smbgetserverinfo -i 192.168.0.100):

     Server Info for 192.168.0.100
     -----------------------------
     Server Name      : BOB
     Server OS        : Unix
     Workgroup/Domain : WORKGROUP

Smb4K(T)

TODO

Smb4K is a SMB/CIFS share browser for KDE. It uses the Samba software
suite to access the SMB/CIFS shares of the local network neighborhood.

> SQL

tool

status

info

Absinthe(G)

TODO

Absinthe is a GUI based tool designed to automate the process of blind
sql injection. It works by profiling response pages as true or false
from known cases, then moves on to identify unknowns as true or false.

Absinthe does not aid in the discovery of SQL Injection holes. This tool
will only speed up the process of data recovery.

Features:

-   Automated SQL Injection
-   Supports MS SQL Server, MSDE, Oracle, Postgres
-   Cookies / Additional HTTP Headers
-   Query Termination
-   Additional text appended to queries
-   Supports Use of Proxies / Proxy Rotation
-   Multiple filters for page profiling
-   Custom Delimiters

Downloading the Schema:
http://www.0x90.org/releases/absinthe/docs/schema.php

Pulling Records from the Database:
http://www.0x90.org/releases/absinthe/docs/datapull.php

Checkpwd(T)

TODO

Checkpwd is a fast dictionary based password checker for Oracle
databases. Checkpwd reads the password hashes from the table sys.user$
and compares the hashkeys with the hashkeys calculated from a dictionary
file.

SQL Inject(T)

TODO

SQL Scanner(T)

TODO

SQLLibf(T)

TODO

SQLBrute(T)

sqlbrute

SQLBrute is a tool for brute forcing data out of databases using blind
SQL injection vulnerabilities. It supports time based and error based
exploit types on Microsoft SQL Server, and error based exploit on
Oracle.

Sidguess(T)

TODO

Sidguess is a brute force tool to guess Oracle SIDs. This tool can be
used to get the SID of an Oracle 10g database which is no longer
available with the listener status command.

sqlanlz(T)

TODO

Enumerates information about databases, users, extended stored
procedures etc. outputting into an HTML report.

sqldict(T)

TODO

Carries out a dictionary based attack on the user(s) specified.

sqldumplogins(T)

TODO

Dump all user accounts from the MS SQL Server.

sqlquery(T)

TODO

Interactive query tool.

sqlupload(T)

TODO

Attempts to upload files to a MS SQL Server.

> Cisco

tool

status

info

Cisco Auditing Tool(T)

TODO

g0ne [null0]

Usage:

-   -h hostname (for scanning single hosts)
-   -f hostfile (for scanning multiple hosts)
-   -p port # (default port is 23)
-   -w wordlist (wordlist for community name guessing)
-   -a passlist (wordlist for password guessing)
-   -i [ioshist] (Check for IOS History bug)
-   -l logfile (file to log to, default screen)
-   -q quiet mode (no screen output)

Cisco Enable Bruteforcer(T)

TODO

Cisco internal bruteforcer

Usage: enabler <ip> [-u user] <pass> <passlist> [port]

Cisco Global Exploiter(T)

TODO

Cisco Global Exploiter is a script that targets vulnerabilities in the
Cisco Internetwork Operating System (IOS) and Catalyst products. Cisco
is ugently advising users to upgrade the networks software to close the
holes that this script is exploiting. When the script is run against the
host it gives menu choices for the user to perform.

Vulnerabilities list :

-   Cisco 677/678 Telnet Buffer Overflow Vulnerability
-   Cisco IOS Router Denial of Service Vulnerability Cisco IOS HTTP Auth
    Vulnerability Cisco IOS HTTP Configuration Arbitrary Administrative
    Access Vulnerability
-   Cisco Catalyst SSH Protocol Mismatch Denial of Service Vulnerability
    Cisco 675 Web Administration Denial of Service Vulnerability Cisco
    Catalyst 3500 XL Remote Arbitrary Command Vulnerability
-   Cisco IOS Software HTTP Request Denial of Service Vulnerability
-   Cisco 514 UDP Flood Denial of Service Vulnerability
-   CiscoSecure ACS for Windows NT Server Denial of Service
    Vulnerability
-   Cisco Catalyst Memory Leak Vulnerability
-   Cisco CatOS CiscoView HTTP Server Buffer Overflow Vulnerability
-   0 Encoding IDS Bypass Vulnerability (UTF)
-   Cisco IOS HTTP Denial of Service Vulnerability

Cisco OCS Mass Scanner(T)

TODO

Cisco Scanning Tool

usage:

./ocs xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx yyy.yyy.yyy.yyy

xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx = range start IP

yyy.yyy.yyy.yyy = range end IP

Cisco OCS Mass Scanner Homepage: http://www.hacklab.tk

Cisco Scanner(T)

TODO

Output stored in cisco.txt

     Usage: ciscos <IP> <class> [option]
       Class A scan: ciscos 127 1
       Class B scan: ciscos 127.0 2
       Class C scan: ciscos 127.0.0 3
       [-C <threads>] maximum threads
       [-t <timeout>] seconds before connection timeout

Cisco Torch(T)

TODO

Cisco Torch mass scanning, application layer fingerprinting, and
exploitation tool to discover and attack remote Cisco hosts running
Telnet, SSH, Web, TFTP, NTP and SNMP services. Useful in auditing large
networks for misconfigured/un-updated Ciscos.

Cisco Torch Homepage:
http://www.arhont.com/ViewPage7422.html?siteNodeId=3&languageId=1&contentId=-1

Penetration
-----------

tool

status

info

Framework3-MsfC(T)

TODO?

The Metasploit Framework is an advanced open-source platform for
developing, testing, and using exploit code.

Framework3-MsfUpdate(T)

TODO?

Uses SVN to update Metasploit code and exploits.

Framework3-Msfcli(T)

TODO?

Command line interface for MetaSploit.

Framework3-Msfweb(T)

TODO?

Init Pgsql (autopwn)(T)

TODO?

Milw0rm Archive(T)

TODO?

Milw0rm(T)

TODO?

Milw0rm is a site for obtaining Proof of concept exploit code.

MsfCli(T)

TODO?

Command line interface for MetaSploit.

MsfConsole(T)

TODO?

The msfconsole interactive command-line interface provides a command set
that allows the user to manipulate the framework environment, set
exploit options, and ultimately deploy the exploit. Unrecognized
commands are passed to the underlying operating system; in this way, a
user can run reconnaissance tools without having to leave the console.

MsfUpdate(T)

TODO?

Uses SVN to update Metasploit code and exploits.

OpenSSL-To-Open(T)

TODO?

openssl-too-open is a remote exploit for the KEY_ARG overflow in OpenSSL
0.9.6d and older. Tested against most major Linux distributions. Gives a
remote nobody shell on Apache and remote root on other servers. Includes
an OpenSSL vulnerability scanner and a detailed vulnerability analysis.
Only Linux/x86 targets are supported.

Update Milw0rm(T)

TODO?

Downloads the latest archive of exploits from http://www.milw0rm.com.

Privilege Escalation
--------------------

tool

status

info

Ascend attacker(T)

TODO

CDP Spoofer(T)

TODO

Cisco Enable Bruteforcer(T)

TODO

Chntpw(T)

TODO?

Chntpw is my memory works good is a Windows NT 2K XP user pasword tool
for

delete passwords and restrictions from SAM database on installed system
theirs not crack like brute force passwords just only delete passwords
and restrictions for Administrators and simple user in SAM database .

To erase password use a script that a make almost for you like search
ntfs drivers from your XP to mount your partition with your drivers if
doesn't find ask you to download all needed data from internet .

Note: Deleting the password will enable you to login to the system
without a password, but it will not give you access to any encrypted
data on the system. All it lets you do is log in.
http://pwet.fr/man/linux/administration_systeme/chntpw
http://home.eunet.no/~pnordahl/ntpasswd/

crunch (T)

crunch

A wordlist generator for all combinations/permutations of a given
character set

DHCPX Flooder(T)

TODO?

DNSspoof(T)

TODO?

Hydra(T)

hydra

Hydra is a software project developed by "The Hacker's Choice" (THC)
that uses a dictionary attack to test for weak or simple passwords on
one or many remote hosts running a variety of different services. It was
designed as a proof-of-concept utility to demonstrate the ease of
cracking poorly chosen passwords.

Hydra GTK(G)

TODO

Hydra GTK is a gui front end to Hydra. Which is a online tool to
guess/crack valid login/password pairs.

John(T)

john

John the Ripper is used for offline password attacks.

Medusa(T)

medusa

Medusa is a speedy, massively parallel, modular, login brute-forcer for
network services, created by the geeks at Foofus.net. It currently has
modules for the following services: CVS, FTP, HTTP, IMAP, MS-SQL, MySQL,
NCP (NetWare), PcAnywhere, POP3, PostgreSQL, rexec, rlogin, rsh, SMB,
SMTP (VRFY), SNMP, SSHv2, SVN, Telnet, VmAuthd, VNC, and a generic
wrapper module.

VNC_bypauth(T)

TODO

RealVNC 4.1.1 Bypass Authentication Scanner - multi-threaded for Linux
and Windows

Usage: VNC_bypauth <target> <scantype> <option>

<target>: |___-p____|___-i____|

<scantype>: |___-cT___|___-vnc___|

<option>: |___-v____|___-vv____|___-T___|__-tc___|__-tr___|__-tt___|

Type VNC_bypauth <target>,<scantype> or <option> for more informations.
To increase the speed under linux, try ulimit -s unlimited

VNCrack(T)

vncrack*

Brute force the hell out of a server. Additional, you may pass a
Registry key with the encrypted password or the UNIX password file to
VNCrack and it does this simple fixed key decryption for you.

Packet Generators
-----------------

tool

status

info

File2Cable(T)

irpas

This tool is perfect to find new vulnerabilities and test concepts. It
sends out any binary file as Ethernet frame - AS IT IS. So make sure you
know what you do. Hint: use xxd from the vim package to produce the
binary file from hex dumps.

Nemesis(T)

nemesis

Nemesis is a packet-crafting program that can forge raw packets up from
the Ethernet layer up and put them on the wire. It's handy for when you
just want to sit down and specify exactly what packets you want to
craft. It supports crafting ARP, DNS, Ethernet, ICP, IGMP, IP, RIP, TCP,
and UDP packets. Similar in concept to the "hping" program.

packETH(T)

TODO?

packETH is a Linux GUI packet generator tool for ethernet. It allows you
to create and send any possible packet or sequence of packets on the
ethernet.

Packit(T)

packit(*)

Packet toolkit is a network auditing tool. Its value is derived from its
ability to customize, inject, monitor, and manipulate IP traffic.

Scapy(T)

scapy(*)

Scapy is a powerful interactive packet manipulation program. It is able
to forge or decode packets of a wide number of protocols, send them on
the wire, capture them, match requests and replies, and much more. It
can easily handle most classical tasks like scanning, tracerouting,
probing, unit tests, attacks or network discovery (it can replace hping,
85% of nmap, arpspoof, arp-sk, arping, tcpdump, tethereal, p0f, etc.).
It also performs very well at a lot of other specific tasks that most
other tools can't handle, like sending invalid frames, injecting your
own 802.11 frames, combining technics (VLAN hopping+ARP cache poisoning,
VOIP decoding on WEP encrypted channel, ...), etc.

Sing(T)

TODO?

Description: A fully programmable ping replacement. Sing is a little
tool that sends ICMP packets fully customized from command line. The
main purpose is to replace/complement the nice ping command with certain
enhancements as:

-   Send fragmented packets (Linux and BSD).
-   Send monster packets > 65534 (Linux and BSD).
-   Send/read spoofed packets.(Libpcap included in distribution).
-   Send many ICMP Information types in addition to the ECHO REQUEST
    type sent by default as Address Mask Request, Timestamp, Information
    Request, Router Solicitation and Router Advertisement.
-   Send many ICMP error types: Redirect, Source Quench, Time Exceeded,
    Destination Unreach and Parameter Problem.
-   Send to host with Loose or Strict Source Routing.
-   Use little fingerprinting techniques to discover Windows or Solaris
    boxes.
-   Send ICMP packets emulating certain OS: Cisco, Solaris, Linux,
    Shiva, Unix and Windows at the moment.

Wireshark Wifi(T)

TODO?

Wireshark with Wifi Injection Patch allows the user to select a packet
opened with wireshark and edit it and reinject throught LORCON injection
library.

Maintaining Access
------------------

Backdoors

tool

status

info

Matahari(T)

matahari

Python script to maintain a basic shell remotely on systems behind
firewalls. Client gets commands by periodically polling the server and
sends the output back after executing them. Traffic traverses firewall
as standard outgoing HTTP GET/POST requests. HTTP requests/responses
carry payload b64 encoded. Optional encryption is supported (and highly
recommended)

Cryptcat(T)

TODO?

Cryptcat is the standard netcat enhanced with twofish encryption with
ports for WIndows NT, BSD and Linux. Twofish is courtesy of counterpane,
and cryptix.

HttpTunnel Client(T)

TODO?

HttpTunnel Server(T)

TODO?

icmptx(T)

TODO?

Iodine(T)

iodine

This is a piece of software that lets you tunnel IPv4 data through a DNS
server. This can be usable in different situations where internet access
is firewalled, but DNS queries are allowed.

NSTX(T)

TODO?

Nstx is a tunneling tool that allows IP over DNS

Privoxy(T)

privoxy

Privoxy is a web proxy with advanced filtering capabilities for
protecting privacy, modifying web page data, managing cookies,
controlling access, and removing ads, banners, pop-ups and other
obnoxious Internet junk. Privoxy has a very flexible configuration and
can be customized to suit individual needs and tastes. Privoxy has
application for both stand-alone systems and multi-user networks.

ProxyTunnel(T)

TODO?

ProxyTunnel is a program that connects stdin and stdout to a server
somewhere on the network, through a standard HTTPS proxy. We mostly use
it to tunnel SSH sessions through HTTP(S) proxies, allowing us to do
many things that wouldn't be possible without ProxyTunnel.

Rinetd(T)

TODO?

tinyproxy(T)

tinyproxy

tinyproxy is a lightweight HTTP proxy. Designed from the ground up to be
fast and yet small, it is an ideal solution for sites where a
full-featured HTTP proxy is required, but the system resources required
to run a more demanding HTTP proxy are unavailable.

sbd(T)

TODO?

sbd is a Netcat-clone, designed to be portable and offer strong
encryption. It runs on Unix-like operating systems and on Microsoft
Win32. sbd features AES-CBC-128 + HMAC-SHA1 encryption (by Christophe
Devine), program execution (-e option), choosing source port, continuous
reconnection with delay, and some other nice features. Only TCP/IP
communication is supported.

socat(T)

socat

socat is a relay for bidirectional data transfer between two independent
data

channels. Each of these data channels may be a file, pipe, device
(serial line etc. or a pseudo terminal), a socket (UNIX, IP4, IP6 - raw,
UDP, TCP), an SSL socket, proxy CONNECT connection, a file descriptor
(stdin etc.), the GNU line editor (readline), a program, or a
combination of two of these. These modes include generation of
"listening" sockets, named pipes, and pseudo terminals.

Covering Tracks
---------------

Housekeeping

tool

status

info

cloak2(T)

TODO

Keep a low profile.
http://www.leetupload.com/dbindex2/index.php?dir=Linux/C%20Code
http://www.martnet.com/~johnny/exploits/cloaks

Radio Network Analysis
----------------------

aka "Wardriving", "Wireless Assessment", "Electromagnetic/Radio
Frequency (EM/RF)", "Signals"...

tool

status

info

GNU Radio (T)

TODO?

> 802.11

tool

status

info

AFrag(T)

TODO?

First implementation of the Fragmentation Attack on Linux.

ASLeap(TG)

TODO?

This tool is released as a proof-of-concept to demonstrate weaknesses in

the LEAP and PPTP protocols.

Aircrack-ng Suite(T)(*)

aircrack-ng-svn

Aircrack

Aircrack is an 802.11 WEP and WPA-PSK keys cracking program that can
recover keys once enough data packets have been captured. It implements
the standard FMS attack along with some optimizations like KoreK
attacks, thus making the attack much faster compared to other WEP
cracking tools. In fact, aircrack is a set of tools for auditing
wireless networks.

Air Decap

decrypts WEP/WPA capture files.

Air Replay

802.11 packet injection program. Part of the aircrack suite.

Airmon-ng

a utility to check an wifi interfaces status and placing the interface
into monitor mode. Part of the aircrack suite.

Airodump

802.11 packet capture program. Part of the aircrack suite.

Airoscript

aircrack-ng based wireless cracking script.

Airpwn(T)

airpwn

Airpwn requires two 802.11 interfaces in the case where driver can't
inject in monitor mode (lots of chipsets do nowadays, see HCL:Wireless
for a list). It uses a config file with multiple config sections to
respond to specific data packets with arbitrary content. For example, in
the HTML goatse example, we look for any TCP data packets starting with
"GET" or "POST" and respond with a valid server response including a
reference to the canonical goatse image.

AirSnarf(T)

TODO

Airsnarf is a simple rogue wireless access point setup utility designed
to demonstrate how a rogue AP can steal usernames and passwords from
public wireless hotspots. Airsnarf was developed and released to
demonstrate an inherent vulnerability of public 802.11b
hotspots--snarfing usernames and passwords by confusing users with DNS
and HTTP redirects from a competing AP.

AirSnort(G)

airsnort

AirSnort is a wireless LAN (WLAN) tool which recovers encryption keys.
AirSnort operates by passively monitoring transmissions, computing the
encryption key when enough packets have been gathered.

CowPatty(T)

cowpatty

Cowpatty is designed to audit the pre-shared key (PSK) selection for WPA
networks based on the TKIP protocol. A while back, Robert Moskowitz
published a paper titled "Weakness in Passphrase Choice in WPA
Interface" that described a dictionary attack against wireless networks
using the TKIP protocol with a pre-shared key (PSK). Supply a libpcap
file that includes the TKIP four-way handshake, a dictionary file of
passphrases to guess with and the SSID for the network:

FakeAP(T)

TODO

Black Alchemy's Fake AP generates thousands of counterfeit 802.11b
access points. Hide in plain sight amongst Fake AP's cacophony of beacon
frames. As part of a honeypot or as an instrument of your site security
plan, Fake AP confuses Wardrivers, NetStumblers, Script Kiddies, and
other undesirables.

     perl fakeap.pl --interface wlan0 --words lists/stefan-wordlist.txt --vendors lists/stefan-maclist.txt ONLY PRISM!

Gens(T)

TODO

GenKeys Genpmk

HotSpotter(TG)

TODO

Hotspotter passively monitors the network for probe request frames to
identify the preferred networks of Windows XP clients, and will compare
it to a supplied list of common hotspot network names. If the probed
network name matches a common hotspot name, Hotspotter will act as an
access point to allow the client to authenticate and associate. Once
associated, Hotspotter can be configured to run a command, possibly a
script to kick off a DHCP daemon and other scanning against the new
victim.

Karma(TG)

TODO

KARMA is a set of tools for assessing the security of wireless clients
at multiple layers. Wireless sniffing tools discover clients and their
preferred/trusted networks by passively listening for 802.11 Probe
Request frames. From there, individual clients can be targetted by
creating a Rogue AP for one of their probed networks (which they may
join automatically) or using a custom driver that responds to probes and
association requests for any SSID. Higher-level fake services can then
capture credentials or exploit client-side vulnerabilities on the host.

Kismet(T)

kismet

Kismet is an 802.11 layer2 wireless network detector, sniffer, and

intrusion detection system. Kismet will work with any wireless card
which supports raw monitoring (rfmon) mode, and can sniff 802.11b,
802.11a, and 802.11g traffic. Kismet identifies networks by passively
collecting packets and detecting standard named networks, detecting (and
given time, decloaking) hidden networks, and infering the presence of
nonbeaconing networks via data traffic.

qkismet(G)

qkismet-svn

Exclusive.

MacChanger(T)

macchanger

A GNU/Linux utility for viewing/manipulating the MAC address of network
interfaces

RUtilt(G)(*)

rutilt

Graphical tools to configure wifi devices. Great support for RaLink.

Wep_(TG)

TODO?

Wep_crack Wep Cracker -- Wep_decrypt Decrypt dump files.

Wifi-Radar(G)(*)

wifi-radar

GUI to configure wireless devices.

WifiTap(T)

wifitap

Wifitap is a proof of concept for communication over WLAN networks using
traffic injection. Wifitap allows direct communication with an
associated station to a given access point directly, whilst not being
being associated ourselves or being handled by access point.

WiCrawl(G)

TODO

wicrawl is an automated wifi scanner and auditor. It implements common
tools to perform checks (association, dhcp, wep cracking, bruteforcing
wpa-psk, etc) against the discovered access point list based on profile
settings. It can use multiple cards to run checks against multiple APs
at the same time.

Wlassistant(TG)

TODO

Wireless Assistant scans for wireless access points and displays link
quality, encryption and other useful information. When user wants to
connect to a network, Wireless Assistant opens up its wizards and guides
the user through Wi-Fi settings. After a successful connection is made
the settings are remembered so next time the user won't have to enter
them again.

> Bluetooth

tool

status

info

AFrag(T)

TODO?

First implementation of the Fragmentation Attack on Linux.

Bluebugger(T)

TODO?

bluebugger is an implementation of the bluebug technique which was
discovered by Martin Herfurt from the Trifinite Group. It was tested
with Nokia 6310i, Nokia N72 and Sony Ericsson T68i.

Blueprint(T)

TODO?

Blueprinting is a method to remotely find out details about
bluetooth-enabled devices. Blueprinting can be used for generating
statistics about manufacturers and models and to find out whether there
are devices in range that have issues with Bluetooth security.

Bluesnarfer(T)

TODO?

Bluesnarfer will download the phonebook of any mobile device vulnerable
to bluesnarfing.

Btscanner(T)

TODO?

btscanner is a tool designed specifically to extract as much information
as possible from a Bluetooth device without the requirement to pair.

Carwhisperer(T)

TODO?

The carwhisperer project intends to sensibilise manufacturers of carkits
and other Bluetooth appliances without display and keyboard for the
possible security threat evolving from the use of standard passkeys.

CuteCom(T)

TODO?

CuteCom is a graphical serial terminal, like minicom.

Ghettotooth(T)

TODO?

Bluetooth scanner.

HCIDump(T)

TODO?

Hcidump reads raw HCI data coming from and going to a Bluetooth device

and prints to screen commands, events and data in a human-readable form.
Optionally, the dump can be written to a file rather than parsed, and
the dump file can be parsed in a subsequent moment.

USSP-Push(T)

TODO?

ussp-push is a OBEX object pusher for Linux, using the BlueZ BlueTooth
stack. The original ussp-push implementation required explicit binding
to RFCOMM channels before the usage, that made it quite cumbersome to
use. Now it has BlueTooth name resolution, SDP service resolution, and
direct access to remote BlueTooth listening channels.

VoIP & Telephony Analysis
-------------------------

-   Wardialing?

tool

status

info

Pcapsipdump(GT)

TODO?

Pcapsipdump is a tool for dumping (recording) SIP sessions (and RTP
traffic, if available) to disk in a fashion similar to "tcpdump -w" (the
format is exactly the same).

The difference is that the data is saved with one file per SIP session.
Even if there are thousands of concurrect SIP sessions, each goes to
separate file.

PcapToSip_RTP(GT)

TODO?

This program with full C# source code allows you to dump the calls
captured from Tetheral, Ethereal, Wireshark, and TCPDUMP. You will have
the sound files to play Incoming, Outgoing, and Combined audio.

Sipsak(GT)

TODO?

Sipsak is a small command line tool for developers and administrators of
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) applications. It can be used for some
simple tests on SIP applications and devices.

SIPcrack(GT)

sipcrack

SIPcrack is a SIP login sniffer/cracker that contains 2 programs:
sipdump to capture the digest authentication and sipcrack to bruteforce
the hash using a wordlist or standard input.

SIPdump(GT)

TODO?

 ?

SIPp(GT)

TODO?

Sipp is a performance testing tool for the SIP protocol. It includes a
few basic SipStone user agent scenarios (UAC & UAS) and establishes and
releases multiple calls with the INVITE and BYE methods. It also reads
XML scenario files describing any performance testing configuration. It
features the dynamic display of statistics about running tests, periodic
CSV statistics dumps, TCP, UDP, or TLS over IPv4 or IPv6 over multiple
sockets or multiplexed with retransmission management, regular
expressions and variables in scenario files, conditional branching, and
dynamically-adjustable call rates. RTP play (voice, video, and RFC2833
DTMFs) is also supported.

SIPVicious

sipvicious-svn

Tools for auditing SIP devices

SMap(GT)

TODO?

smap is a mashup of nmap and sipsak. To sum up functionality in one
sentence it aides in both locating and fingerprinting remote SIP
devices.

Network Security Monitoring
---------------------------

tool

status

info

Suricata (T)

TODO?

Sguil (T)

TODO?

Digital Forensics
-----------------

tool

status

info

All in 1(T)

TODO?

This tool should help you to make several time consuming tasks in
Sleuthkit/autopsy in one row:

-   Extract unallocted space
-   Extract strings (ASCII and Unicode) from allocated and unallocated
-   Sort by file types
-   Sort by images and create thumbnails
-   Make foremost run on images
-   Scheduling

All this steps are also saved in the host.aut-file so Autopsy will know
about what happened.

Autopsy(G)

autopsy

The Autopsy Forensic Browser is a graphical interface to the command
line digital investigation tools in The Sleuth Kit. Together, they allow
you to investigate the file system and volumes of a computer.

dcfldd(T)

dcfldd

dcfldd is an enhanced version of GNU dd with features useful for
forensics and security.

DD_Rescue(T)

TODO?

dd_rescue copies data from one file or block device to another. It is
intended for error recovery, so, by default, it doesn't abort on errors,
and doesn't truncate the output file. It uses large block sizes to
quicken the copying, but falls back to small blocks upon encountering
errors. It produces reports that allow you to keep track of bad blocks.

Foremost(T)

foremost

Foremost is a console program to recover files based on their headers,
footers, and internal data structures. This process is commonly referred
to as data carving. Foremost can work on image files, such as those
generated by dd, Safeback, Encase, etc, or directly on a drive. The
headers and footers can be specified by a configuration file or you can
use command line switches to specify built-in file types. These built-in
types look at the data structures of a given file format allowing for a
more reliable and faster recovery.

Magic Rescue(T)

TODO?

Magic Rescue scans a block device for file types it knows how to recover
and calls an external program to extract them. It looks at "magic bytes"
in file contents, so it can be used both as an undelete utility and for
recovering a corrupted drive or partition. As long as the file data is
there, it will find it.

It works on any file system, but on very fragmented file systems it can
only recover the first chunk of each file. Practical experience (this
program was not written for fun) shows, however, that chunks of 30-50MB
are not uncommon.

mboxgrep(T)

TODO?

mboxgrep is a small utility that scans a mailbox for messages matching a
regular expression. Found messages can be either displayed on standard
output, counted, deleted, piped to a shell command or written to another
mailbox.

mdd

TODO

Memfetch(T)

TODO?

Memfetch is a yet another small but useful security tool that allows
instant and non-intrusive dumping of ALL process memory, including the
information absent from core files. This is a neat way to see what,
exactly, is running at a particular PID.

Memfetch Find(T)

TODO?

Custom perl script that can be used to find strings (regular expression
matches) in memfetch dump files in a more useful way then grep could -
that is, finding exact memory locations.

Pasco(T)

TODO?

Index.dat (Internet Explorer history file) reader. Output is comma
delimited for analysis in favorite spreadsheet.

Rootkithunter(T)

rkhunter

Rootkit Hunter scans files and systems for known and unknown rootkits,
backdoors, and sniffers. The package contains one shell script, a few
text-based databases, and optional Perl modules.

Sleuthkit(T)

TODO?

The Sleuth Kit (TSK) is a collection of UNIX-based command line tools
that allow you to investigate a computer. The current focus of the tools
is the file and volume systems and TSK supports FAT, Ext2/3, NTFS, UFS,
and ISO 9660 file systems.

Vinetto(GT)

TODO

Vinetto is a forensics tool to examine Thumbs.db files

Reverse Engineering
-------------------

tool

status

info

GDB GNU Debugger(GT)

gdb

GDB, the GNU Project debugger, allows you to see what is going on
`inside' another program while it executes -- or what another program
was doing at the moment it crashed. The program being debugged can be
written in Ada, C, C++, Objective-C, Pascal (and many other languages).
Those programs might be executing on the same machine as GDB (native) or
on another machine (remote). GDB can run on most popular UNIX and
Microsoft Windows variants.

GDB can do four main kinds of things (plus other things in support of
these) to help you catch bugs in the act:

1) Start your program, specifying anything that might affect its
behavior.

2) Make your program stop on specified conditions.

3) Examine what has happened, when your program has stopped.

4) Change things in your program, so you can experiment with correcting
the effects of one bug and go on to learn about another.

-   GDB User Manual:
    http://sourceware.org/gdb/current/onlinedocs/gdb_toc.html

-   GDB Internals Manual:
    http://sourceware.org/gdb/current/onlinedocs/gdbint_toc.html

GDB Console GUI(G)

TODO?

Same as GDB GNU Debugger with a GUI frontend.

gdbserver(GT)

TODO?

gdbserver is a control program for Unix-like systems, which allows you
to connect your program with a remote GDB via target remote---but
without linking in the usual debugging stub.

GNU DDD(GT)

TODO?

GNU DDD is a graphical front-end for command-line debuggers such as GDB,
DBX, WDB, Ladebug, JDB, XDB, the Perl debugger, the bash debugger, or
the Python debugger. Besides ``usualfront-end features such as viewing
source texts, DDD has become famous through its interactive graphical
data display, where data structures are displayed as graphs.

Hexdump(T)

TODO?

Hexdmup is a simple program for dumping binary files in hexadecimal
format. It provides both hexadecimal and ascii columns.

Hexedit(GT)

hexedit

View and edit files in hexadecimal or in ASCII. The file can be a device
as the file is read a piece at a time. You can modify the file and
search through it.

OllyDbg(GT)

TODO?

is a 32-bit assembler level analysing debugger for Microsoft® Windows®.
Emphasis on binary code analysis makes it particularly useful in cases
where source is unavailable.

Services
--------

tool

status

info

SNORT(T)

snort

  

snortrules(T)

snortrules

snortsam(T)

snortsam

oinkmaster(T)

oinkmaster

  

Firefox Add-ons
---------------

tool

status

info

Firebug

Firebug

  

FoxyProxy

FoxyProxy

HackBar

HackBar

NoScript

NoScript

AdBlock

AdBlock

Tamper Data

Tamper Data

Retrieved from
"https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=ArchTrack/oldtools&oldid=239109"

Category:

-   Security
