Cairo-Dock
==========

Cairo-Dock is a highly customizable dock written in C.

Contents
--------

-   1 Installation
    -   1.1 Plugin dependencies
-   2 Configuration
    -   2.1 Running the dock
    -   2.2 Running the dock at startup
        -   2.2.1 Cairo-Dock method
        -   2.2.2 Openbox/Fluxbox
        -   2.2.3 Xfce
        -   2.2.4 GNOME
    -   2.3 Configuring the dock
-   3 Troubleshooting
    -   3.1 Two Cairo-Docks are running
    -   3.2 The background is black
-   4 See also

Installation
------------

Install cairo-dock from the official repositories. The core package
provides only the strict minimum to run Cairo-Dock - to use applets,
animations, views, effects and dialogs you will also need
cairo-dock-plugins.

You can also try the latest BZR unstable snapshot packages:
cairo-dock-bzr and cairo-dock-plugins-bzr.

> Plugin dependencies

The applets in cairo-dock-plugins require quite a lot of dependencies,
therefore all of them have been made optional not to bloat your system
if you don't use a particular applet. Please refer to the optdepends
list and install those you need.

Note:If for some reason an applet is not working, make sure you have
GVFS installed, it is required for several applets as well as GNOME,
XFCE and KDE integration.

Configuration
-------------

> Running the dock

Run the dock in the background:

    $ cairo-dock &

This will generate a startup message that will ask you to choose a
backend for the current session (OpenGL or Cairo). There is an option to
remember the choice and if not choosing to remember the choice, a
startup message will be generated each time Cairo-Dock is run without
backend options. To supress the startup message, you can specify which
backend to use when running Cairo-Dock by specifying it as an option.

Run the dock with OpenGL backend:

    $ cairo-dock -o &

Run the dock with Cairo backend:

    $ cairo-dock -c &

Tip:All using ATI graphics cards should use this option. Some
cards/drivers do not support OpenGL, which may prevent Cairo-Dock from
running correctly.

> Running the dock at startup

This depends on which desktop environment or window manager that is
being used and which backend Cairo-Dock should be run with. The
following section shows how to run Cairo-Dock at startup without forcing
a backend.

Cairo-Dock method

Run Cairo-Dock and right-click the dock and go to Cairo-Dock > Launch
Cairo-Dock on startup. The settings will be stored in
~/.config/autostart/ and sourced the next time you login.

Openbox/Fluxbox

Add the following to ~/.config/openbox/autostart or ~/.fluxbox/startup
accordingly:

    cairo-dock &

Xfce

If you have xfce4-autostart-editor installed, simply run it and add an
entry for Cairo-Dock. If you're not using a session manager you can add
the following to ~/.config/xfce4/xinitrc or ~/Desktop/Autostart:

    cairo-dock &

GNOME

Add a Cairo-Dock entry to Startup Programs using

    $ gnome-session-properties

> Configuring the dock

To configure the dock, right-click the dock and go to Cairo-Dock >
Configure.

Troubleshooting
---------------

> Two Cairo-Docks are running

This is most likely a result of saved sessions being runned at login. If
you are using a desktop environment like GNOME, KDE or Xfce you need to
disable automatic startup of sessions in your session manager settings.
You may also need to delete the sessions cache:

    $ rm ~/.cache/sessions/x*

If you are not using a desktop environment with a session manager or
choose to have Cairo-Dock startup by itself, you need to remove
autostart files generated by Cairo-Dock:

    $ rm ~/.config/autostart/cairo-dock*

> The background is black

This is most likely caused by not running a composite manager, like
Xcompmgr or Cairo Compmgr. Cairo-Dock uses the transparency feature of
the composite manager to display the dock, and without it the dock will
be displayed with a black background. If you are using a desktop
environment, simply enable the composite manager or desktop effects in
the settings.

An alternative solution that does not require a composite manager is to
enable fake transparency in Cairo-Dock. To do this, right-click the dock
and go to Cairo-Dock > Configure > Advanced Mode > System > Composition.
Then enable both Emulate composition with fake transparency and Make the
config panel transparent.

See also
--------

-   glx.org
-   launchpad

Retrieved from
"https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=Cairo-Dock&oldid=280674"

Categories:

-   Application launchers
-   Eye candy

-   This page was last modified on 31 October 2013, at 13:11.
-   Content is available under GNU Free Documentation License 1.3 or
    later unless otherwise noted.
-   Privacy policy
-   About ArchWiki
-   Disclaimers
