File Recovery
=============

This article lists data recovery and undeletion options for Arch Linux.
Please contribute to this page using the general format below, keeping
it brief if possible.

Contents
--------

-   1 Special notes
    -   1.1 Before you start
    -   1.2 Failing drives
    -   1.3 Backup flash media/small partitions
    -   1.4 Working with digital cameras
-   2 Foremost
-   3 Extundelete
    -   3.1 Installation
    -   3.2 Usage
-   4 Testdisk and PhotoRec
    -   4.1 Installation
    -   4.2 See also
-   5 e2fsck
    -   5.1 Installation
    -   5.2 See also
-   6 Working with raw disk images
    -   6.1 Mount the entire disk
    -   6.2 Mounting partitions
        -   6.2.1 Getting disk geometry
    -   6.3 Using QEMU to Repair NTFS
-   7 Text file recovery
-   8 See also

Special notes
-------------

> Before you start

This page is mostly intended to be used for educational purposes. If you
have accidentally deleted or otherwise damaged your valuable and
irreplaceable data and have no previous experience with data recovery,
turn off your computer immediately (Just press and hold the off button
or pull the plug; do not use the system shutdown function) and seek
professional help. It is quite possible and even probable that, if you
follow any of the steps described below without fully understanding
them, you will worsen your situation.

> Failing drives

In the area of data recovery, it is best to work on images of disks
rather than physical disks themselves. Generally, a failing drive's
condition worsens over time. The goal ought to be to first rescue as
much data as possible as early as possible in the failure of the disk
and to then abandon the disk. The ddrescue and dd_rescue utilities,
unlike dd, will repeatedly try to recover from errors and will read the
drive front to back, then back to front, attempting to salvage data.
They keep log files so that recovery can be paused and resumed without
losing progress.

See Disk Cloning.

The image files created from a utility like ddrescue can then be mounted
like a physical device and can be worked on safely. Always make a copy
of the original image so that you can revert if things go sour!

A tried and true method of improving failing drive reads is to keep the
drive cold. A bit of time in the freezer is appropriate, but be careful
to avoid bringing the drive from cold to warm too quickly, as
condensation will form. Keeping the drive in the freezer with cables
connected to the recovering PC works great.

Do not attempt a filesystem check on a failing drive, as this will
likely make the problem worse. Mount it read-only.

> Backup flash media/small partitions

As an alternative to working with a 'live' partition (mounted or not),
it is often preferable to work with an image, provided that the
filesystem in question is not too large and that you have sufficient
free HDD space to accommodate the image file. For example, flash memory
devices like thumb drives, digital cameras, portable music players,
cellular phones, etc. are likely to be small enough to image in many
cases.

Be sure to read the man pages for the utilities listed below to verify
that they are capable of working with image files.

To make an image, one can use dd as follows:

    # dd if=/dev/target_partition of=/home/user/partition.image

> Working with digital cameras

In order for some of the utilities listed in the next section to work
with flash media, the device in question needs to be mounted as a block
device (i.e., listed under /dev). Digital cameras operating in PTP
(Picture Transfer Protocol) mode will not work in this regard. PTP
cameras are transparently handled by libgphoto and/or libptp. In this
case, "transparently" means that PTP devices do not get block devices.
The alternative to PTP mode, USB Mass Storage (UMS) mode, is not
supported by all cameras. Some cameras have a menu item that allows
switching between the two modes; refer to your camera's user manual. If
your camera does not support UMS mode and therefore cannot be accessed
as a block device, your only alternative is to use a flash media reader
and physically remove the storage media from your camera.

Foremost
--------

Foremost is a console program to recover files based on their headers,
footers, and internal data structures. This process is commonly referred
to as data carving. Foremost can work on disk image files (such as those
generated by dd, Safeback, Encase, etc.) or directly on a drive. The
headers and footers can be specified by a configuration file or command
line switches can be used to specify built-in file types. These built-in
types look at the data structures of a given file format, allowing for
more reliable and faster recovery.

See Foremost article.

Extundelete
-----------

Extundelete is a terminal-based utility designed to recover deleted
files from ext3 and ext4 partitions. It can recover all the recently
deleted files from a partition and/or a specific file(s) given by
relative path or inode information. Note that it works only when the
partition is unmounted. The recovered files are saved in the current
directory under the folder named RECOVERED_FILES/.

> Installation

extundelete is available in the official repositories.

> Usage

Derived from the post on Linux Poison.

To recover data from a specific partition, the device name for the
partition, which will be in the format /dev/sdXN (X is a letter and N is
a number.), must be known. The example used here is /dev/sda4, but your
system might use something different (For example, MMC card readers use
/dev/mmcblkNpN as their naming scheme.) depending on your filesystem and
device configuration. If you are unsure, run df, which prints currently
mounted partitions.

Once which partition data is to be recovered from has been determined,
simply run:

    # extundelete /dev/sda4 --restore-file directory/file

Any subdirectories must be specified, and the command runs from the
highest level of the partition, so, to recover a file in
/home/SomeUserName/, assuming /home is on its own partition, run:

    # extundelete /dev/sda4 restore-file SomeUserName/SomeFile

To speed up multi-file recovery, extundelete has a --restore-files
option as well.

To recover an entire directory, run:

    # extundelete /dev/sda4 --restore-directory SomeUserName/SomeDirectory

For advanced users, to manually recover blocks or inodes with
extundelete, debugfs can be used to find the inode to be recovered;
then, run:

    # extundelete --restore-inode inode

inode stands for any valid inode. Additional inodes to recover can be
listed in an unspaced, comma-separated fashion.

Finally, to recover all deleted files from an entire partition, run:

    # extundelete /dev/sda4 --restore-all

Testdisk and PhotoRec
---------------------

TestDisk and Photorec are both open-source data recovery utilities
licensed under the terms of the GNU Public License (GPL).

TestDisk is primarily designed to help recover lost partitions and/or
make non-booting disks bootable again when these symptoms are caused by
faulty software, certain types of viruses, or human error, such as the
accidental deletion of partition tables.

PhotoRec is file recovery software designed to recover lost files
including photographs (Hint: PhotographRecovery), videos, documents,
archives from hard disks and CD-ROMs. PhotoRec ignores the filesystem
and goes after the underlying data, so it will still work even with a
re-formatted or severely damaged filesystems and/or partition tables.

> Installation

testdisk from the official repositories provides both TestDisk and
PhotoRec.

> See also

-   Wiki (TestDisk): http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk
-   Wiki (Photorec): http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/PhotoRec
-   Homepage: http://www.cgsecurity.org/

e2fsck
------

e2fsck is the ext2/ext3 filesystem checker included in the base install
of Arch. e2fsck relies on a valid superblock. A superblock is a
description of the entire filesystem's parameters. Because this data is
so important, several copies of the superblock are distributed
throughout the partition. With the -b option, e2fsck can take an
alternate superblock argument; this is useful if the main, first
superblock is damaged.

To determine where the superblocks are, run dumpe2fs -h on the target,
unmounted partition. Superblocks are spaced differently depending on the
filesystem's blocksize, which is set when the filesystem is created.

An alternate method to determine the locations of superblocks is to use
the -n option with mke2fs. Be sure to use the -n flag, which, according
to the mke2fs manpage, "Causes mke2fs to not actually create a
filesystem, but display what it would do if it were to create a
filesystem. This can be used to determine the location of the backup
superblocks for a particular filesystem, so long as the mke2fs
parameters that were passed when the filesystem was originally created
are used again. (With the -n option added, of course!)".

> Installation

Both e2fsck and dumpe2fs are included in the base Arch install.

> See also

-   e2fsck man page:
    http://phpunixman.sourceforge.net/index.php/man/e2fsck/8
-   dumpe2fs man page:
    http://phpunixman.sourceforge.net/index.php?parameter=dumpe2fs&mode=man

Working with raw disk images
----------------------------

If you have backed up a drive using ddrescue or dd and you need to mount
this image as a physical drive, see this section.

> Mount the entire disk

To mount a complete disk image to the next free loop device, use the
losetup command:

    # losetup -f -P /path/to/image

> Tip:

-   The -f flag mounts the image to the next available loop device.
-   The -P flag creates additional devices for every partition.

> Mounting partitions

In order to be able to mount a partiton of a whole disk image, follow
the steps above.

Once the whole disk image is mounted, a normal mount command can be used
on the loop device:

    # mount /dev/loop0p1 /mnt/example

This command mounts the first partition of the image in loop0 to the
folder to the mountpoint /mnt/example. Remember that the mountpoint
directory must exist!

Getting disk geometry

Once the entire disk image has been mounted as a loopback device, its
drive layout can be inspected.

> Using QEMU to Repair NTFS

With a disk image that contains one or more NTFS partitions that need to
be chkdsked by Windows since no good NTFS filesystem checker for Linux
exists, QEMU can use a raw disk image as a real hard disk inside a
virtual machine:

    # qemu -hda /path/to/primary.img -hdb /path/to/DamagedDisk.img

Then, assuming Windows is installed on primary.img, it can be used to
check partitions on /path/to/DamagedDisk.img.

Text file recovery
------------------

It's possible to find deleted plain text on a hard drive with a few
commands. A preferably unique string from the file you are trying to
recover is needed.

First, use the strings command to dump all the text from a partition:

    # strings /dev/sdXN > BigStringsFile

Then use grep to filter through the content of BigStringsFile:

    $ grep -i -200 "Unique string in text file" BigStringsFile > GrepOutputFile

Note:The -200 option tells grep to print 200 lines of context from
before and after each mach of the string. You may need to adjust this if
the text you are looking for is very long.

Hopefully, the correct deleted data is now in GrepOutputFile.

See also
--------

-   Data Recovery on the Ubuntu wiki

Retrieved from
"https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=File_Recovery&oldid=299350"

Categories:

-   File systems
-   System recovery

-   This page was last modified on 21 February 2014, at 08:26.
-   Content is available under GNU Free Documentation License 1.3 or
    later unless otherwise noted.
-   Privacy policy
-   About ArchWiki
-   Disclaimers
