HP 530
======

I was looking for a cheap, good bang for the buck laptop I could take
back and forth to class and also something I could play with Linux on
outside of desktop/workstation boxes. I browsed NewEgg for a few weeks
looking for good deals and finally settled on this one. There were two
versions, one was a Celeron with 512MB RAM and about the time I settled
on it, the price of this one dropped so I went ahead and spent the extra
for a Core Duo, double the RAM and a DVD burner.

+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Contents                                                                 |
| --------                                                                 |
|                                                                          |
| -   1 Specs                                                              |
| -   2 Installation                                                       |
|     -   2.1 Initial                                                      |
|     -   2.2 Post Install Config                                          |
|                                                                          |
| -   3 Issues                                                             |
|     -   3.1 Wireless                                                     |
|         -   3.1.1 Hardware/Kernel Stuff                                  |
|         -   3.1.2 Software/User Space Stuff                              |
|         -   3.1.3 Summary                                                |
|                                                                          |
|     -   3.2 CPU Frequency Scaling                                        |
|     -   3.3 Sound and Headphones                                         |
|                                                                          |
| -   4 Alternate Solution?                                                |
| -   5 To Do                                                              |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Specs
-----

It's a pretty run of the mill low end laptop. Nothing too fancy or too
expensive .. here are the highlights.

-   Model 530 (GU337AT#ABA)
-   Screen 15.4" WXGA
-   Memory Size 1GB DDR2
-   Hard Disk 80GB
-   Optical Drive DVD±R/RW
-   Graphics Card Intel GMA950
-   Video Memory shared memory
-   CPU Type Intel Core Duo
-   CPU Speed T2300E(1.66GHz)
-   CPU FSB 667MHz
-   CPU L2 Cache 2MB
-   Resolution 1280 x 800
-   GPU/VPU Intel GMA950
-   Video Memory Up to 224-MB shared system memory
-   Graphic Type Integrated Card
-   HD Interface SATA
-   Memory Slots 2 x SO-DIMM
-   Memory Speed DDR2 667

Installation
------------

The base install was extremely easy. Coming from Slackware I had a
pretty good grasp of a text-based installer so I was right at home
during the initial configuration. However, since this was my first
experience with Arch I was a bit lost when it came time to configure the
system. :^) I browsed the wiki here for a bit until I stumbled on the
great Beginners Guide which I used to update the system, grab Xorg, XFCE
and pretty much everything else it mentioned. If you're an Arch newb
like I am I strongly suggest browsing over there and checking out that
Intro, I can't recommend it enough. :-)

> Initial

Combine the fact I was coming to Arch from Slack with my OCD nature, I
ended up with a the following partitioning scheme.

    /dev/sda6    /boot
    /dev/sda7    /
    /dev/sda8    /usr
    /dev/sda9    /home
    /dev/sda10   /var
    /dev/sda11   /tmp

With a 2048MB SWAP space (2*1024RAM)

> Post Install Config

I pretty much went down the aforementioned Beginners Guide following the
first reboot, so I won't go into a great deal of detail. Besides
everyone has their own preferences on a lot of that stuff like media
players and themes, fonts etc.

I updated via pacman then grabbed the Xorg, sound (ALSA), Xfce and fonts
packages mentioned there, and edited /etc/rc.conf to load the DAEMONS
and MODULES I needed. Everything worked on the first try with little or
no tweaking needed so I was up and running my first fully functional
Arch install. :-)

Issues
------

I only had three real issues during the install -- wireless, CPU
frequency scaling and the (prevalent?) Linux + Laptop problem of the
internal speaker not being muted when headphones are plugged in. I'll
tackle them in order of severity.

> Wireless

A laptop without wireless is pretty useless, and this is one of the
areas Linux hasn't really shined in the past so I was a bit apprehensive
when my wireless didn't work right out of the box. However after reading
through most of the documentation on the Wiki and the Forums I got it
working, so there is hope if you're struggling with it too.

If you haven't already, take a look at the wireless setup page. It's a
good starting point/intro for wireless newbs like me. On there it
mentions the method I use here as being the "non-preferred" method, but
I couldn't get the "preferred" method there to work. Now that I know a
little bit more about the process I may try to go back and look into it,
but as long as it's not broken, I'm reluctant to "fix" it. :-/

Hardware/Kernel Stuff

First I grabbed the wireless tools package.

    pacman -S wireless_tools

Then I figured out which type of card I had with lshwd (I actually had
to grab lshwd with pacman first, but no biggie there!)

    lshwd
    .
    .
    10:00.0 Class 0280: Intel Corporation|PRO/Wireless 3945ABG (ipw3945)
    .
    .

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Actually, that driver is deprecated, instead use iwl3945

To install:

    pacman -S iwlwifi-3945-ucode

It's all you need to do. You do not even need to load any modules,
thanks to recent kernels (2.6.28 and above)
_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

So, I need the ipw3945 module which was already on my system, as
determined by:

    modinfo ipw3945

I checked to see if it was loaded already

    lsmod | grep 3945

It wasn't, but the iwl3945 was so I removed it. (At this point I had
installed so many different modules and packages trying to get wireless
to work I'm not sure exactly what comes pre-loaded with the default
install so YMMV on this next little bit).

    rmmod iwl3945

Then I dropped in the ipw3945 module

    modprobe ipw3945

Finally I needed to insert the ipw3945 module (and remove any iwl3945)
into the MODULES array in /etc/rc.conf and ipw3945d daemon into the
DAEMONS array in the same file. I'm not sure if it matters, but I made
sure I put the daemon before all the other networking related daemons,
again, YMMV slightly.

At this point you should have everything ready to go on the hardware
side. You man want to reboot to make sure you got all the stuff in
/etc/rc.conf correct since I thought I had things working a couple times
until I rebooted then everything magically broke again. :^)

Software/User Space Stuff

(NOTE: I'm not endorsing one program/utility over another here, I'm just
sharing what I got to work. :-) ) I browsed around the Arch site here
and Google looking for a nice wireless connection utility and tried a
couple different things. I tried networkmanager but that didn't really
get me anywhere. Then I tried wicd and it had all the features I needed
and seemed to work alright so I went with it. I pretty much followed the
procedure on the wicd page and I was up and running in no time. I added
wicd to my DAEMON array in /etc/rc.conf and launched it via the tray
icon and it found my wireless connection ... and six of my neighbors
connections too. :^)

Summary

Basically I had no idea how to do wireless on any platform when I
started. This section isn't really intended to be a guide on how you
SHOULD do things, rather an electronic form of my notes on how I DID do
things. :-)

> CPU Frequency Scaling

See the main CPU Frequency Scaling article.

> Sound and Headphones

The issue with the sound wasn't the sound itself (well, actually it was,
the internal speaker sucks :^) ) but the (apparently?) widespread
problem of said speakers not being muted when headphones are plugged in.
My Googling brought me seemingly endless solutions to this problem which
didn't work .. these were some of my favorites:

-   Consider it a feature!
-   Just cut the wires to the internal speaker.
-   Don't do anything that needs sound.

Well I really do not want to annoy everyone within earshot, void my
warranty or sit in silence while hacking out programs at the last minute
so the following are a largely hodge-podge conglomeration of "solutions"
I found. I'm not sure if any one of these did it or the combination of
them all, but, again, it works so I'm not going to touch it!

-   Grab alsa plugins (which I already I had IIRC)

    pacman -S alsa-plugins

-   Grab jack-audio-connection-kit (kind of makes sense from the name I
    guess?)

    pacman -S jack-audio-connection-kit

-   Then on some of the forums for other distros I saw a lot of
    suggestions to edit /etc/modprobe.d/modprobe.conf in some form or
    fashion. Here's what mine looks like now and everything seems to
    work so I've just left it.

    options snd-hda-intel model=auto

Alternate Solution?
-------------------

-   I managed to get the headphones muting properly by adding this line
    to /etc/modprobe.d/modprobe.conf

    options snd-hda-intel model=laptop

To Do
-----

There are still a few things I'd like to get working at some point so if
anyone is reading this and has any suggestions I'd love to hear
them. :-) Most are pretty low priority/eye candy type stuff.

-   I'd like to have something like MacBooks where they "gradually" dim
    when idle as opposed to "entirely on" and "entirely off". I think
    that would come in handy when I just have my notebook open as a
    reference or something where I could still read it but not need it
    sitting there sucking my battery dry at full illumination.

     xbacklight -set 30 -time 60000  <--dim over a minute

-   Anything to extend battery life. I haven't really looked into it but
    I'd like to find a way to scale the core voltage as well as
    frequency. I've seen Intel utilities that can do that on Windows
    desktops but nothing so far for Linux
-   A way to kill the wireless card in software. This notebook comes
    with a button right by the power button to kill the wireless. It's
    not a big deal to hit the button I guess but it would be pretty neat
    if there was a way to simulate hitting the button in case I forget
    or I lose wireless connection for extended periods. I'm not even
    sure if this is possible or how it could be done, though.

Retrieved from
"https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=HP_530&oldid=231891"

Category:

-   HP
