HP TC1100
=========

The TC 1100 is a slate tablet PC with a 10.2" screen and detachable
keyboard.

Contents
--------

-   1 Booting
    -   1.1 USB Key
    -   1.2 USB CD/DVD Rom
-   2 Installation
-   3 Post Install
    -   3.1 Graphics
    -   3.2 Power
        -   3.2.1 Suspending and Resuming
    -   3.3 Stylus
    -   3.4 Wireless
    -   3.5 Stylus Buttons
    -   3.6 Right Hand Buttons
    -   3.7 Screen
-   4 Recommended Tablet-related Applications
    -   4.1 Input
-   5 References

Booting
-------

Since the tablet has no internal cd-rom, booting from USB is the only
option for getting into the installation media.

> USB Key

Note:I was unable to get the tablet to boot from a USB key. Use USB
CD-Rom if posible

> USB CD/DVD Rom

1.  Plugin a USB CD-Rom drive with installation disk
2.  Attach keyboard (USB or Dock are fine)
3.  Boot computer
4.  While in BIOS post screen, press the "jog-dial" located on the top
    left edge
5.  Select "CD-Rom" and press jog-dial again

Installation
------------

Installation is the same as with any laptop. I recommend following the
Beginners' guide

Post Install
------------

For additional tablet related information, please read the [Tablet PC]
page.

> Graphics

Nouveau works fine, including the 3D support

> Power

Install and setup the following

-   Cpufreq
-   Pm-utils
-   ACPI hotkeys (acpi and acpid for suspend button to work)

Suspending and Resuming

Using pm-utils, suspend to RAM works out of the box. Suspend to disk
(hibernate) works once you have added the resume parameter to the kernel
boot command and the resume hook to /etc/mkinitcpio.conf, as discussed
in the pm-utils article.

Resuming after suspending to disk causes the stylus to cease
functioning. No data will be sent by the digitizer until it receives the
ISDV4_SAMPLING command, which is merely the ASCII character "1" (49).
Unfortunately, the xf86-input-wacom driver only sends that particular
command during initialization. I suppose the proper way to fix this
would be to modify the driver to recognize when it's resuming from a
suspend to disk and send the command accordingly. Of course, I didn't
want to bother with all of that, so I put the following shell script in
/etc/pm/sleep.d instead:

    #!/bin/sh

    case "$1" in
     hibernate|resume|suspend )
      ;;
     thaw )
      xset -display :0 q 2>&1 | head -1 | grep -Eqx 'No protocol specified|Keyboard Control:' && printf 1 >>/dev/ttyS0
      ;;
     * )
      exit $NA
      ;;
    esac

Please note that this script, as written, requires xorg-xset.

> Stylus

Install the xf86-input-wacom package. A reboot may be required for Xorg
to recognize the serial digitizer For additional help, see the Wacom
page.

> Wireless

> TODO

> Stylus Buttons

I've done a quick and dirty hack of xf86-input-wacom to get the
stylus-activated buttons working.

Unpack it, build it using makepkg, and install the resulting package
with pacman. The stylus buttons will now generate keycodes when
triggered, and these can be bound to actions by either your window
manager or xbindkeys. The specific keycodes are as follows:

  Button                         Keycode
  ------------------------------ ---------------------
  Rotate                         KEY_DIRECTION (161)
  Journal Launch                 KEY_PROG3 (210)
  Tablet PC Input Panel Launch   KEY_PROG4 (211)

> Right Hand Buttons

Side buttons work out of the box. Sometimes they do not respond until
the unit is put into standby and then resumed

> Screen

> TODO

Recommended Tablet-related Applications
---------------------------------------

> Input

-   cellwriter
-   dasher

References
----------

Alternative Install Guides:

-   http://wiki.linuxquestions.org/wiki/TC1100

General TC1000/TC110 resources:

-   http://81.5.185.34/tc-one-thousand/tc1x00_tweaks.html

Retrieved from
"https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=HP_TC1100&oldid=298081"

Category:

-   HP

-   This page was last modified on 16 February 2014, at 07:12.
-   Content is available under GNU Free Documentation License 1.3 or
    later unless otherwise noted.
-   Privacy policy
-   About ArchWiki
-   Disclaimers
