LG R400
=======

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Tango-user-trash-full.p This article or section  [Tango-user-trash-full.p
  ng]                      is being considered for  ng]
                           deletion.                
                           Reason: Useful info      
                           already covered by       
                           Beginners' guide and     
                           Laptop. (Discuss)        
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

Working:

-   X11
-   Sound
-   Suspend
-   LAN
-   wlan (needs ndiswrapper)
-   cardreader
-   extra buttons

Unknown:

-   hibernate
-   express card

Contents
--------

-   1 Disk Partitions
-   2 Graphics Card / X11
-   3 WiFi / Wlan Network
-   4 Brightness Control

Disk Partitions
---------------

The factory default partition table is a mess and the Arch Linux
installation programm has troubles with it. I booted an ubuntu
installation CD and partitioned the drive with that, then cancelled the
installation and continued with Arch Linux. I think parted or gparted
does the trick, so you can use any Linux live CD with it.

Graphics Card / X11
-------------------

See Intel Graphics.

WiFi / Wlan Network
-------------------

See Wireless network configuration#ath5k

Brightness Control
------------------

To control the brightness of the display, modprobe video (the ACPI video
module), via /etc/rc.conf. Then you have
/sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness. Use

    cat < /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/max_brightness > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness

to get maximum brightness.

Retrieved from
"https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=LG_R400&oldid=300213"

Category:

-   LG

-   This page was last modified on 23 February 2014, at 12:55.
-   Content is available under GNU Free Documentation License 1.3 or
    later unless otherwise noted.
-   Privacy policy
-   About ArchWiki
-   Disclaimers
