LG R500
=======

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Tango-user-trash-full.p This article or section  [Tango-user-trash-full.p
  ng]                      is being considered for  ng]
                           deletion.                
                           Reason: All info covered 
                           by Beginners' guide and  
                           Laptop. (Discuss)        
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

Contents
--------

-   1 Hardware
-   2 Configuration
    -   2.1 CPU
    -   2.2 Video
        -   2.2.1 Xorg
    -   2.3 Audio
    -   2.4 Wi-Fi
    -   2.5 Webcam
    -   2.6 Bluetooth
    -   2.7 Card Reader
    -   2.8 Pointer
    -   2.9 Leds & ACPI upgrade
    -   2.10 Function Keys
    -   2.11 Fingerprint-Reader
    -   2.12 Custom DSDT

Hardware
--------

-   CPU: Intel Core 2 Duo T7300 (2.00GHz, 4MB cache L2, FSB 800MHz)
-   Chipset: Mobile Intel® 965 PM Express Chipset + ICH8
-   RAM: 2048MB
-   Hard Disk: SATA 160GB 5400 rpm
-   DVD Burner: DOUBLE LAYER
-   Display:
    -   TFT 15.4" WSXGA+ (1680x1050) FineBright TFT
-   Video: NVIDIA GeForce Go 8600M GS
-   Audio:
-   Wi-Fi: 802.11a/b/g/n
-   Bluetooth: Cambridge Silicon Radio
-   Webcam: 1.3 Mpixel, Cheng Uei Precision Industry Co., Ltd (Foxlink)
-   Modem: 56 Kbps V.90
-   LAN Gigabit Ethernet: 10/100/1000
-   Connectors:
    -   1 x Microphone-in jack
    -   1 x Headphone-out jack (S/PDIF)
    -   1 x TypeII PCMCIA slot
    -   1 x Line-in jack
    -   1 x VGA port
    -   1 x HDMI port
    -   3 x USB 2.0 ports
    -   1 x IEEE 1394 port
    -   1 x RJ11 Modem jack for phone line
    -   1 x RJ45 LAN Jack for LAN insert
    -   1 x TV-out(S-Video)
-   Card Reader: SD
-   Fingerprint-Reader: AuthenTec AES1610
-   Dimension and Weight:
    -   357mm * 260mm * 38 mm(W x D x H)
    -   2.8 Kg
-   Pointer: Touch pad

Configuration
-------------

> CPU

Works out of the box. For speed stepping follow this wiki site:
SpeedStep

> Video

Works with the proprietary Nvidia driver in full display resolution.

TV-Out/DVI currently untested, but the graphics driver finds the
interfaces, so they should be switchable with the nvidia-tools.

VGA-Out is working with nvidia-settings.

Xorg

Follow this guide: NVIDIA

No problems detected.

> Audio

Works out of the box.

Follow the official documentation: ALSA

> Wi-Fi

To enable wireless follow the official guide: Wireless network
configuration

Please note that the R500 needs the iwl4965 driver and firmware, so do a

    pacman -S iwlwifi iwlwifi-4965-ucode

and put iwl4965 in your MODULES-line in /etc/rc.conf

NetworkManager is also a cool option.

> Webcam

See Webcam Setup.

> Bluetooth

Works out of the box, you just have to do:

    pacman -S bluez-libs bluez-utils

and put bluetooth in the DAEMONS-line in /etc/rc.conf

> Card Reader

Put this in the MODULES-section of /etc/rc.conf:

    tifm_sd mmc_block

> Pointer

To enable the pointer follow this guide: Touchpad Synaptics

A really cool utility is gsynaptics (available in the [community] repo).

If you want to disable the touch-function while you are writing, be sure
to install synaptics with

    pacman -S synaptics

Then you can create a shell-script in ~/.kde/Autostart like this

    #! /bin/sh
    syndaemon -t -i 2 &

to disable the touch-function for 2 seconds after the last keystroke.

> Leds & ACPI upgrade

The WLAN-LED ist not working with the official iwl4965-driver, but only
with ndiswrapper and XP-drivers. All the other LEDs are working.

> Function Keys

Not all of the function-keys are working right now.

If you can't adjust the brightness of your display, be sure to

    modprobe video

and put it in the MODULES-line in /etc/rc.conf

> Fingerprint-Reader

See fprint.

> Custom DSDT

You may recompile the DSDT and load it from a file into the kernel, if
you want. The pros specifically to this model (lg r500) are unknown, but
generally a clean DSDT provides better ACPI comapbility, and require
less quirks to get the kernel running cleanly. After following the steps
provdided by the link above, you need to apply this patch to the
"dsdt.dsl" by saving the text to lgr500-dsdt-dsl.patch and run

    patch dsdt.dsl < lgr500-dsdt-dsl.patch

The dsdt.dsl should now compile cleanly. The BIOS version used for the
patched DSDT is "COLSSF10" (the patch may work well with other versions
as well). You may check your BIOS version with

    dmidecode | head

Retrieved from
"https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=LG_R500&oldid=302856"

Category:

-   LG

-   This page was last modified on 2 March 2014, at 08:50.
-   Content is available under GNU Free Documentation License 1.3 or
    later unless otherwise noted.
-   Privacy policy
-   About ArchWiki
-   Disclaimers
