MCE Handling
============

This article aims to help users implement services to actively monitor,
log, and report hardware errors. A machine check exception (MCE) is an
error generated by the CPU when the CPU detects that a hardware error or
failure has occurred.

Contents
--------

-   1 Introduction
-   2 Installing mcelog
-   3 Configuring mcelog
    -   3.1 Running mcelog as a daemon
    -   3.2 Additional configuration options
-   4 Hardware documentation from CPU manufacturers
-   5 See Also

Introduction
------------

Machine check exceptions (MCEs) can occur for a variety of reasons
ranging from undesired or out-of-spec voltages from the power supply,
from cosmic radiation flipping bits in memory DIMMs or the CPU, or from
other miscellaneous faults, including faulty software triggering
hardware errors.

Installing mcelog
-----------------

The mcelog daemon written by Andi Kleen is one of the tools one can use
to gather MCE information.

Install the mcelog package from the official repositories.

Configuring mcelog
------------------

mcelog's configuration file is located at /etc/mcelog/mcelog.conf.

> Running mcelog as a daemon

It is recommended by upstream to always run mcelog as a daemon, so edit
/etc/mcelog/mcelog.conf and set daemon = yes.

Finally, start the mcelog service and enable it to start automatically
on boot:

    # systemctl start mcelog
    # systemctl enable mcelog

> Additional configuration options

The following option is probably recommended:

    syslog = yes

Hardware documentation from CPU manufacturers
---------------------------------------------

-   AMD64 Architecture Programmer's Manual, Volume 2: System Programming
-   BIOS and Kernel Developer's Guide for AMD Athlon™ 64 and AMD
    Opteron™ Processors

See Also
--------

-   Wikipedia's article on machine check exceptions
-   Wikipedia's article on the machine check architecture
-   mcelog daemon page by Andi Kleen
-   References page from mcelog site

Retrieved from
"https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=MCE_Handling&oldid=302922"

Categories:

-   CPU
-   Kernel

-   This page was last modified on 2 March 2014, at 14:17.
-   Content is available under GNU Free Documentation License 1.3 or
    later unless otherwise noted.
-   Privacy policy
-   About ArchWiki
-   Disclaimers
