Rt2870
======

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Tango-dialog-warning.pn This article or section  [Tango-dialog-warning.pn
  g]                       is out of date.          g]
                           Reason: please use the   
                           first argument of the    
                           template to provide a    
                           brief explanation.       
                           (Discuss)                
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

Note:As of linux kernel 3.0, the rt2800usb driver automatically works
with devices using the rt2870 chipset.

This entry is to aid you in configuring wireless settings for use with
devices built with Ralink's rt2870 chipset. I hope that this entry will
encourage further contribution regarding the configuration of Ralink
drivers.

Note:This entry has been (so far) written with Infrastructure mode and
WPA authentication in mind. Please contribute any other configurations.

+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Contents                                                                 |
| --------                                                                 |
|                                                                          |
| -   1 Installation (kernels from 2.6.29 to 2.6.39)                       |
| -   2 Configuration                                                      |
| -   3 Configuration - File (maybe obsolete)                              |
|     -   3.1 Initial Configuration                                        |
|     -   3.2 Authentication                                               |
|         -   3.2.1 WPA                                                    |
|         -   3.2.2 WEP                                                    |
|                                                                          |
|     -   3.3 Examples                                                     |
|                                                                          |
| -   4 Troubleshooting                                                    |
|     -   4.1 dmesg:Bulk In Failed, CMDTHREAD_RESET_BULK_IN, etc.          |
|     -   4.2 rt2870CmdThread is using a lot of CPU                        |
|     -   4.3 Kernel 2.6.31 module conflicts                               |
|                                                                          |
| -   5 What next?                                                         |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Installation (kernels from 2.6.29 to 2.6.39)
--------------------------------------------

Since version 2.6.29 this driver has been included in the kernel

Configuration
-------------

This driver is best configured using tools that utilize the standard
wireless extensions, such as wpa_supplicant, iwconfig, and their
front-ends.

Various driver specific options can be configured using iwpriv.

Configuration - File (maybe obsolete)
-------------------------------------

This section is to help you with the configuration file used to set the
parameters of the device when it is brought up (e.g.
ip link set ra0 up).

-   First, go into the src/ directory where you built the package and
    into the source code's directory. For example

    cd ~/AUR/rt2870/src/2008_0925_RT2870_Linux_STA_v1.4.0.0

-   Copy the RT2870STA.dat file to /etc/Wireless/RT2870STA. If the
    directory does not exist, create it.

    cp RT2870STA.dat /etc/Wireless/RT2870STA

> Initial Configuration

-   In this file, the first line must always contain the word Default,
    so it should be on the first line.

    Default

-   Change the country/region channel number to the one that corresponds
    to your network:
    -   0: channels 1 through 11
    -   1: channels 1 through 12
    -   2: channels 10 and 11 (according to ralink)
    -   3: channels 10 through 13
    -   4: channel 14
    -   5: channels 1 through 14
    -   6: channels 3 through 9
    -   7: channels 5 through 13

My configuration

    CountryRegion=0

-   Add your country code. Valid country codes include the following

    AG, AR, AW, AU, AT, BS, BB, BM, BR, BE, BG, CA, KY, CL, CN, CO, CR, CY, CZ, DK, DO, EC, SV, FI, FR, DE, GR, 
    GU, GT, HT, HN, HK, HU, IS, IN, ID, E, IL, IT, JP, JO, LV, LI, LT, LU, MY, MT, MA, MX, NL, NZ, NO, PE, PT, 
    PL, RO, RU, SA, CS, SG, SK, SI, ZA, KR, ES, SE, CH, TW, TR, GB, UA, AE, US, VE

My configuration

    ConuntryCode=US

-   Edit the ssid to your network's SSID using either characters 0-z or
    1~32 ASCII characters

For example

    SSID=mywirelessnetwork

-   Change the network type to whatever type of network you are using:
    -   Infra (for Infrastructure)
    -   Adhoc (for Ad-hoc)

My configuration

    NetworkType=Infra

-   Edit the wireless mode using numbers 0 through 10:
    -   0: legacy 11b/g mixed
    -   1: legacy 11b only
    -   2: legacy 11a only
    -   3: legacy 11a/b/g mixed
    -   4: legacy 11g only
    -   5: 11a/b/g/n mixed
    -   6: 11n only
    -   7: 11g/n mixed
    -   8: 11a/n mixed
    -   9: 11b/g/n mixed
    -   10: 11a/g/n mixed

I use 0

    WirelessMode=0

-   Edit the channel number. This must correspond to the CountryRegion
    setting.

My configuration

    Channel=10

> Authentication

Note:Because I use WPA and have not tested WEP configuration, the WEP
configuration type explained is just a guess. If you use a rt2870 device
with a WEP-protected network, then please correct the wiki.

-   Set authmode to one of the following options:
    -   Open
    -   AUTOWEP (for WEP)
    -   WPA (WPA with WPA Supplicant)
    -   WPA2 (WPA2 with WPA supplicant)
    -   WPAPSK
    -   WPA2PSK

The WPA and WPA2 options should work with netcfg and NetworkManager. For
WPA,

    AuthMode=WPA

-   Set the encryption type to one of the following:
    -   WEP
    -   TKIP
    -   AES
    -   None

For TKIP,

    EncrypType=TKIP

WPA

-   If you are using WPA, set your pre-shared key (PSK):

    WPAPSK=mysecretkey

WEP

-   If you are using WEP, first set the key index using numbers 1
    through 4

For example,

    DefaultKeyID=1

-   Now, set the key type (of your corresponding key index) so it knows
    what kind of key to look for:
    -   0: hex
    -   1: ASCII string

    Key1Type=0

-   Provide your WEP key according to type, for example

For a string key

    Key1Str=mysecretwepkey

For a hex key

    Key1=01234

> Examples

Here are some example options for reference.

RT2870STA.dat

    Default
    CountryRegion=0
    CountryRegionABand=7
    CountryCode=US
    ChannelGeography=1
    SSID=mywirelessnetwork
    NetworkType=Infra
    WirelessMode=0
    Channel=10
    BeaconPeriod=100
    TxPower=100
    BGProtection=0
    TxPreamble=1
    RTSThreshold=2347
    FragThreshold=2346
    TxBurst=0
    PktAggregate=0
    WmmCapable=0
    AckPolicy=0;0;0;0
    AuthMode=WPA
    EncrypType=TKIP
    WPAPSK=mysecretkey
    DefaultKeyID=1
    Key1Type=0
    Key1Str=
    Key2Type=0
    Key2Str=
    Key3Type=0
    Key3Str=
    Key4Type=0
    Key4Str=
    PSMode=CAM
    FastRoaming=0
    RoamThreshold=70
    APSDCapable=0
    APSDAC=0;0;0;0
    HT_RDG=1
    HT_EXTCHA=0
    HT_OpMode=1
    HT_MpduDensity=4
    HT_BW=1
    HT_AutoBA=1
    HT_BADecline=0
    HT_AMSDU=0
    HT_BAWinSize=64
    HT_GI=1
    HT_MCS=33
    HT_MIMOPSMode=3
    IEEE80211H=0
    TGnWifiTest=0
    WirelessEvent=0
    CarrierDetect=0

  
 And a netcfg profile:

    CONNECTION="wireless"
    INTERFACE=ra0
    SCAN="no"
    SECURITY="wpa"
    ESSID=mywirelessnetwork
    KEY="mysecretkey"
    IP="dhcp"
    TIMEOUT=20
    DHCP_TIMEOUT=30

There is no need to set the channel in the netcfg profile since the .dat
file took care of it.

Troubleshooting
---------------

> dmesg:Bulk In Failed, CMDTHREAD_RESET_BULK_IN, etc.

Bulk In Failed messages are not so bad, but a problem arises when and if
the failed data leads to CMDTHREAD_RESET_BULK_IN which results in the
module removing itself (e.g. modprobe -r rt2870sta).

This probably happened because you created your own RT2870STA.dat file.
Go into the rt2870 tarball directory, into the source code directory,
and replace the RT2870STA.dat in /etc/Wireless/RT2870STA/ with the
preconfigured .dat file in the 2008_0718_RT2870_Linux_STA_v1.3.1.0
directory. From there, set the options that correspond to your network
without removing any of the options.

> rt2870CmdThread is using a lot of CPU

I do not specifically know why this occurs, but it is probably because
you connected your device to a hub.

> Kernel 2.6.31 module conflicts

The 2.6.31 kernel caused the rt2870 driver to conflict with other
wireless modules. The fix in this thread says that you need to blacklist
the rt2800usb, rt2x00usb, and rt2x00lib modules. See Kernel
modules#Blacklisting for information about blacklisting kernel modules.

What next?
----------

Insert the device and try connecting. See the Wireless Management
section of Wireless Setup for details on connection methods.

Retrieved from
"https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=Rt2870&oldid=236273"

Category:

-   Wireless Networking
